# Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using the Border Gateway Protocol - Link State
*(Signaling MSD using BGP-LS)*

**RFC 8814**
*Stream: IETF*

**Category:** std
**Submission Type:** IETF
**Consensus:** true
**IPR:** trust200902
**Doc Name:** draft-ietf-idr-bgp-ls-segment-routing-msd-18

## Authors

- Jeff Tantsura
  - Apstra, Inc.
  - Email: jefftant.ietf@gmail.com
- Uma Chunduri
  - Futurewei Technologies
  - Email: umac.ietf@gmail.com
- Ketan Talaulikar
  - Cisco Systems
  - Email: ketant@cisco.com
- Greg Mirsky
  - ZTE Corp.
  - Email: gregimirsky@gmail.com
- Nikos Triantafillis
  - Amazon Web Services
  - Email: nikost@amazon.com

**Date:** 08 2020

**Area:** Routing

**Workgroup:** IDR Working Group

**Keywords:** BGP-LS, SID, MSD, SR

## Related Documents

- [prev](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-idr-bgp-ls-segment-routing-msd-18)
- [alternate](https://dx.doi.org/10.17487/rfc8814)
- [alternate](urn:issn:2070-1721)

## Abstract

This document defines a way for a Border Gateway Protocol - Link State
      (BGP-LS) speaker to advertise multiple types of supported Maximum SID
      Depths (MSDs) at node and/or link granularity.

Such advertisements allow entities (e.g., centralized controllers) to
      determine whether a particular Segment Identifier (SID) stack can be
      supported in a given network.

## Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
            (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
            received public review and has been approved for publication by
            the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further
            information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of 
            RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any
            errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
            [https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8814](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8814).

## Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
            document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
            Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
            ([https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info](https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info)) in effect on the date of
            publication of this document. Please review these documents
            carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
            respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
            document must include Simplified BSD License text as described in
            Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
            warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

## Table of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#intro)
  - [1.1. Conventions Used in This Document](#section-1.1)
    - [1.1.1. Terminology](#section-1.1.1)
    - [1.1.2. Requirements Language](#section-1.1.2)
- [2. Advertisement of MSD via BGP-LS](#ADVT)
- [3. Node MSD TLV](#NodeMSD)
- [4. Link MSD TLV](#LinkMSD)
- [5. IANA Considerations](#iana-consider)
- [6. Manageability Considerations](#Manageability)
- [7. Security Considerations](#security)
- [8. References](#section-8)
  - [8.1. Normative References](#section-8.1)
  - [8.2. Informative References](#section-8.2)
- [Acknowledgements](#section-appendix.a)
- [Contributors](#Contributors)
- [Authors' Addresses](#authors-addresses)

<a name="intro"></a>
# Introduction

When Segment Routing (SR) [RFC8402](#RFC8402) paths are computed
      by a centralized controller, it is critical that the controller learns
      the Maximum SID Depth (MSD) that can be imposed at each node/link on a
      given SR path. This ensures that the Segment Identifier (SID) stack
      depth of a computed path doesn't exceed the number of SIDs the node is
      capable of imposing.

[RFC8664](#RFC8664) defines how to signal
      MSD in the Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP). The OSPF and IS-IS
      extensions for the signaling of MSD are defined in [RFC8476](#RFC8476)
      and [RFC8491](#RFC8491), respectively.

However, if PCEP is not supported/configured on the head-end of an SR
      tunnel or a Binding-SID anchor node, and the controller does not participate
      in IGP routing, it has no way of learning the MSD of nodes and links.
      BGP-LS [RFC7752](#RFC7752) defines a way to expose topology and
      associated attributes and capabilities of the nodes in that topology to
      a centralized controller.

This document defines extensions to BGP-LS to advertise one or more
      types of MSDs at node and/or link granularity.  Other types of MSDs are
      known to be useful. For example, [OSPF-ELC](#I-D.ietf-ospf-mpls-elc) and [ISIS-ELC](#I-D.ietf-isis-mpls-elc) define Entropy Readable Label Depth (ERLD), which is
      used by a head-end to insert an Entropy Label (EL) at a depth that can
      be read by transit nodes.

In the future, it is expected that new MSD-Types will be defined to
      signal additional capabilities, e.g., ELs, SIDs that can be imposed
      through recirculation, or SIDs associated with another data plane such
      as IPv6. MSD advertisements may be useful even if SR itself is not
      enabled. For example, in a non-SR MPLS network, MSD defines the maximum
      label depth.

## Conventions Used in This Document

### Terminology

**MSD:**
  Maximum SID Depth - the number of SIDs supported by a node or a link on a node

**PCE:**
  Path Computation Element

**PCEP:**
  Path Computation Element Protocol

**SID:**
  Segment Identifier as defined in [RFC8402](#RFC8402)

**SR:**
  Segment Routing

**Label Imposition:**
  Imposition is the act of modifying and/or
            adding labels to the outgoing label stack associated with a packet.
             This includes:

  - replacing the label at the top of the label stack with a new
              label
  - pushing one or more new labels onto the label stack
  The number of labels imposed is then the sum of the number of labels
                that are replaced and the number of labels that are pushed. See
                [RFC3031](#RFC3031) for further details.


### Requirements Language

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**",
          "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**",
          "**RECOMMENDED**", "**NOT RECOMMENDED**",
          "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document
          are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 [RFC2119](#RFC2119) [RFC8174](#RFC8174) when,
          and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

<a name="ADVT"></a>
# Advertisement of MSD via BGP-LS

This document describes extensions that enable BGP-LS speakers to
      signal the MSD capabilities [RFC8491](#RFC8491) of
      nodes and their links in a network to a BGP-LS consumer of network
      topology such as a centralized controller.  The centralized controller
      can leverage this information in computation of SR paths based on their
      MSD capabilities. When a BGP-LS speaker is originating the topology
      learnt via link-state routing protocols such as OSPF or IS-IS, the MSD
      information for the nodes and their links is sourced from the underlying
      extensions as defined in [RFC8476](#RFC8476) and
      [RFC8491](#RFC8491), respectively.

The extensions introduced in this document allow for advertisement of
        different MSD-Types, which are defined elsewhere and were introduced in [RFC8491](#RFC8491).
        This enables sharing of MSD-Types that may be defined in the future by the IGPs in BGP-LS.

<a name="NodeMSD"></a>
# Node MSD TLV

The Node MSD ([RFC8476](#RFC8476) [RFC8491](#RFC8491)) is encoded in a new Node Attribute TLV
   [RFC7752](#RFC7752) to carry the provisioned SID depth of the router identified by the
   corresponding Router-ID.  Node MSD is the smallest MSD supported by the node
   on the set of interfaces configured for use.  MSD values may be learned via
   a hardware API or may be provisioned.  The following format is used:

**Figure 1: Node MSD TLV Format**

```

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |    MSD-Type   |  MSD-Value    |  MSD-Type...  |  MSD-Value... |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```
Where:

- Type:
            266
            Length:
            variable (multiple of 2); represents the total
	length of             
          the value field in octets.
            Value:
            consists of one or more pairs of a 1-octet
	  MSD-Type and          
          1-octet MSD-Value.
              MSD-Type:
                one of the values defined in the "IGP
            MSD-Types" registry defined in [RFC8491](#RFC8491).
                MSD-Value:
                a number in the range of 0-255. For all
            MSD-Types, 0 represents the lack of ability to impose an MSD stack
            of any depth; any other value represents that of the node.  This
            value **MUST** represent the lowest value supported by
            any link configured for use by the advertising protocol
            instance.

<a name="LinkMSD"></a>
# Link MSD TLV

The Link MSD ([RFC8476](#RFC8476) [RFC8491](#RFC8491)) is defined to 
      carry the MSD of the interface associated with the link.  
      It is encoded in a new Link Attribute TLV [RFC7752](#RFC7752) using the following format:

**Figure 2: Link MSD TLV Format**

```

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |    MSD-Type   |  MSD-Value    |  MSD-Type...  |  MSD-Value... |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```
Where:

- Type:
            267
            Length:
            variable (multiple of 2); represents the total
	length of             
          the value field in octets.
            Value:
            consists of one or more pairs of a 1-octet
	  MSD-Type and          
          1-octet MSD-Value.
              MSD-Type:
                one of the values defined in
            the "IGP MSD-Types" registry defined in [RFC8491](#RFC8491).
                MSD-Value:
                a number in the range of 0-255. For all
            MSD-Types, 0 represents the lack of ability to impose an MSD stack
            of any depth; any other value represents that of the link when
            used as an outgoing interface.

<a name="iana-consider"></a>
# IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned code points from the registry
      "BGP-LS Node Descriptor, Link Descriptor, Prefix Descriptor, and
      Attribute TLVs" based on the table below.

**Table: BGP-LS MSD TLV Code Points
**

| TLV Code Point | Description | IS-IS TLV/Sub-TLV | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 266 | Node MSD | 242/23 | This document |
| 267 | Link MSD | (22,23,25,141,222,223)/15 | This document |

<a name="Manageability"></a>
# Manageability Considerations

The new protocol extensions introduced in this document augment the
      existing IGP topology information that is distributed via [RFC7752](#RFC7752). Procedures and protocol extensions
      defined in this document do not affect the BGP protocol operations and
      management other than as discussed in Section [Manageability
      Considerations](#RFC7752) of [RFC7752](#RFC7752). Specifically, the malformed attribute tests for
      syntactic checks in Section [Fault Management](#RFC7752) of [RFC7752](#RFC7752) now encompass the new BGP-LS
      Attribute TLVs defined in this document. The semantic or content
      checking for the TLVs specified in this document and their association
      with the BGP-LS Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) types or their BGP-LS Attribute is left to the
      consumer of the BGP-LS information (e.g., an application or a controller)
      and not the BGP protocol.

A consumer of the BGP-LS information retrieves this information over
      a BGP-LS session (refer to Sections [RFC7752](#RFC7752) and [RFC7752](#RFC7752) of [RFC7752](#RFC7752)).

This document only introduces new Attribute TLVs, and any syntactic
      error in them would result in the BGP-LS Attribute being discarded [RFC7752](#RFC7752). 
      The MSD information introduced in BGP-LS by this
      specification, may be used by BGP-LS consumer applications like an SR PCE 
      to learn the SR SID stack handling
      capabilities of the nodes in the topology. This can enable the SR PCE to
      perform path computations taking into consideration the size of SID
      stack that the specific head-end node may be able to impose. Errors in
      the encoding or decoding of the MSD information may result in the
      unavailability of such information to the SR PCE, or incorrect
      information being made available to it. This may result in the head-end
      node not being able to instantiate the desired SR path in its forwarding
      and provide the SR-based optimization functionality. The handling of
      such errors by applications like SR PCE may be implementation specific
      and out of scope of this document.

The extensions specified in this document do not specify
      any new configuration or monitoring aspects in BGP or BGP-LS.
      The specification of BGP models is an
      ongoing work based on the [BGP-MODEL](#I-D.ietf-idr-bgp-model).

<a name="security"></a>
# Security Considerations

The advertisement of an incorrect MSD value may have negative
      consequences. If the value is smaller than supported, path computation
      may fail to compute a viable path. If the value is larger than
      supported, an attempt to instantiate a path that can't be supported by
      the head-end (the node performing the SID imposition) may occur. The
      presence of this information may also inform an attacker of how to
      induce any of the aforementioned conditions.

The procedures and protocol extensions defined in this document do not
      affect the BGP security model.  See the "Security Considerations" Section of
      [RFC4271](#RFC4271) for a discussion of BGP security.  
      Also, refer to [RFC4272](#RFC4272) and [RFC6952](#RFC6952) for analyses of security issues for BGP. 
      Security considerations for acquiring and distributing BGP-LS information are discussed in [RFC7752](#RFC7752).

      The TLVs introduced in this document are used to propagate the MSD IGP
      extensions defined in [RFC8476](#RFC8476) and [RFC8491](#RFC8491).  
      It is assumed that the IGP
      instances originating these TLVs will support all the required security (as
      described in [RFC8476](#RFC8476) and [RFC8491](#RFC8491)) in order to prevent any security
      issues when propagating the TLVs into BGP-LS.

      The advertisement of the node and link attribute information defined in this
      document presents no significant additional risk beyond that associated with the
      existing node and link attribute information already supported in [RFC7752](#RFC7752).

<a name="references"></a>
# References

## Normative References

<a name="RFC2119"></a> **[RFC2119]** S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>

<a name="RFC7752"></a> **[RFC7752]** H. Gredler, J. Medved, S. Previdi, A. Farrel, S. Ray, "North-Bound Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP", RFC 7752, DOI 10.17487/RFC7752, March 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7752>

<a name="RFC8174"></a> **[RFC8174]** B. Leiba, "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174, May 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>

<a name="RFC8476"></a> **[RFC8476]** J. Tantsura, U. Chunduri, S. Aldrin, P. Psenak, "Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using OSPF", RFC 8476, DOI 10.17487/RFC8476, December 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8476>

<a name="RFC8491"></a> **[RFC8491]** J. Tantsura, U. Chunduri, S. Aldrin, L. Ginsberg, "Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS", RFC 8491, DOI 10.17487/RFC8491, November 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8491>

## Informative References

<a name="I-D.ietf-idr-bgp-model"></a> **[BGP-MODEL]** M Jethanandani, K Patel, S Hares, J Haas, "BGP YANG Model for Service Provider Networks", Internet-Draft draft-ietf-idr-bgp-model-09, June 2020. Work in Progress <https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-idr-bgp-model-09>

<a name="I-D.ietf-isis-mpls-elc"></a> **[ISIS-ELC]** X Xu, S Kini, P Psenak, C Filsfils, S Litkowski, M Bocci, "Signaling Entropy Label Capability and Entropy Readable Label Depth Using IS-IS", Internet-Draft draft-ietf-isis-mpls-elc-13, May 2020. Work in Progress <https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-isis-mpls-elc-13>

<a name="I-D.ietf-ospf-mpls-elc"></a> **[OSPF-ELC]** X Xu, S Kini, P Psenak, C Filsfils, S Litkowski, M Bocci, "Signaling Entropy Label Capability and Entropy Readable Label Depth Using OSPF", Internet-Draft draft-ietf-ospf-mpls-elc-15, June 2020. Work in Progress <https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ospf-mpls-elc-15>

<a name="RFC3031"></a> **[RFC3031]** E. Rosen, A. Viswanathan, R. Callon, "Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture", RFC 3031, DOI 10.17487/RFC3031, January 2001. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3031>

<a name="RFC4271"></a> **[RFC4271]** Y. Rekhter, T. Li, S. Hares, "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)", RFC 4271, DOI 10.17487/RFC4271, January 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4271>

<a name="RFC4272"></a> **[RFC4272]** S. Murphy, "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis", RFC 4272, DOI 10.17487/RFC4272, January 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

<a name="RFC6952"></a> **[RFC6952]** M. Jethanandani, K. Patel, L. Zheng, "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP) Design Guide", RFC 6952, DOI 10.17487/RFC6952, May 2013. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6952>

<a name="RFC8402"></a> **[RFC8402]** C. Filsfils, S. Previdi, L. Ginsberg, B. Decraene, S. Litkowski, R. Shakir, "Segment Routing Architecture", RFC 8402, DOI 10.17487/RFC8402, July 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

<a name="RFC8664"></a> **[RFC8664]** S. Sivabalan, C. Filsfils, J. Tantsura, W. Henderickx, J. Hardwick, "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment Routing", RFC 8664, DOI 10.17487/RFC8664, December 2019. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8664>

# Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Acee Lindem, Stephane Litkowski, Bruno Decraene,
      and Alvaro Retana for their reviews and valuable
      comments.

<a name="Contributors"></a>
# Contributors

**Siva Sivabalan**

- Organization: Cisco Systems Inc.
- Address: Canada
- Email: msiva@cisco.com

<a name="authors-addresses"></a>
# Authors' Addresses

**Jeff Tantsura**

- Organization: Apstra, Inc.
- Email: jefftant.ietf@gmail.com

**Uma Chunduri**

- Organization: Futurewei Technologies
- Email: umac.ietf@gmail.com

**Ketan Talaulikar**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Email: ketant@cisco.com

**Greg Mirsky**

- Organization: ZTE Corp.
- Email: gregimirsky@gmail.com

**Nikos Triantafillis**

- Organization: Amazon Web Services
- Email: nikost@amazon.com
