# Updated Rules for Processing Stateful PCE Request Parameters Flags
*(Stateful PCEP Flags)*

**RFC 8786**
*Stream: IETF*

**Category:** std
**Updates:** 8231
**Submission Type:** IETF
**Consensus:** true
**IPR:** trust200902
**Doc Name:** draft-ietf-pce-stateful-flags-01

## Authors

- Adrian Farrel
  - Old Dog Consulting
  - Email: adrian@olddog.co.uk

**Date:** 05 2020

**Area:** Routing

**Workgroup:** PCE

**Keywords:** PCEP, Path Computation Element, Stateful PCE, Flags

## Related Documents

- [prev](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-pce-stateful-flags-01)
- [alternate](https://dx.doi.org/10.17487/rfc8786)
- [alternate](urn:issn:2070-1721)

## Abstract

Extensions to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
      (PCEP) to support stateful Path Computation Elements (PCEs) are defined
      in RFC 8231.  One of the extensions is the Stateful PCE Request
      Parameters (SRP) object.  That object includes a Flags field that is a
      set of 32 bit flags, and RFC 8281 defines an IANA registry for tracking
      assigned flags.  However, RFC 8231 does not explain how an
      implementation should set unassigned flags in transmitted messages, nor
      how an implementation should process unassigned, unknown, or unsupported
      flags in received messages.

This document updates RFC 8231 by defining the correct behaviors.

## Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
            (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
            received public review and has been approved for publication by
            the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further
            information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of 
            RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any
            errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
            [https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8786](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8786).

## Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
            document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
            Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
            ([https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info](https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info)) in effect on the date of
            publication of this document. Please review these documents
            carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
            respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
            document must include Simplified BSD License text as described in
            Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
            warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

## Table of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#section-1)
- [2. Requirements Language](#section-2)
- [3. Updated Procedures](#update)
  - [3.1. Advice for Specification of New Flags](#advice)
  - [3.2. Flags Field of the SRP Object](#SRPflags)
- [4. Compatibility Considerations](#Backward)
- [5. Management Considerations](#Management)
- [6. Security Considerations](#Security)
- [7. IANA Considerations](#IANA)
- [8. References](#section-8)
  - [8.1. Normative References](#section-8.1)
  - [8.2. Informative References](#section-8.2)
- [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)
- [Author's Address](#authors-addresses)

# Introduction

[RFC5440](#RFC5440) describes the Path
      Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP).  PCEP defines the
      communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a Path
      Computation Element (PCE), or between PCEs, enabling computation of
      Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) for Traffic Engineering Label
      Switched Path (TE LSP) characteristics.

[RFC8231](#RFC8231) specifies a set of
      extensions to PCEP to enable stateful control of LSPs within and across
      PCEP sessions in compliance with [RFC4657](#RFC4657).  It includes mechanisms to effect Label Switched
      Path (LSP) State Synchronization between PCCs and PCEs, delegation of
      control over LSPs to PCEs, and PCE control of timing and sequence of
      path computations within and across PCEP sessions.

One of the extensions defined in [RFC8231](#RFC8231) is the Stateful PCE Request Parameters (SRP) object.
      That object includes a Flags field that is a set of 32 bit flags, and
      RFC 8281 defines an IANA registry for tracking assigned
      flags.  However, RFC 8231 does not explain how an
      implementation should set unassigned flags in transmitted messages, nor
      how an implementation should process unassigned or unknown flags in
      received messages.

Furthermore, [RFC8231](#RFC8231) gives no
      guidance to the authors of future specifications about how to describe
      the interaction between flags that have already been defined and flags
      being defined in the new specifications.

This document updates RFC 8231 by defining the correct behaviors.

# Requirements Language

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**",
    "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**",
    "**RECOMMENDED**", "**NOT RECOMMENDED**",
    "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are
    to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 [RFC2119](#RFC2119)
        [RFC8174](#RFC8174) when, and only when, they appear in all capitals,
    as shown here.

<a name="update"></a>
# Updated Procedures

<a name="advice"></a>
## Advice for Specification of New Flags

[RFC8231](#RFC8231) introduces
        changes to existing PCEP objects and defines new PCEP objects and TLVs
        in support of stateful PCE functionality.  That text does not advise
        future specifications on how to describe the interaction between flags
        that may be defined.

The text in [RFC8231](#RFC8231)
        is updated to read as follows:

- The PCEP objects defined in this document are compliant with the
          PCEP object format defined in [RFC5440](#RFC5440).  The P and I flags of the PCEP objects defined
          in the current document **MUST** be set to 0 on
          transmission and **SHOULD** be ignored on receipt since
          they are exclusively related to path computation requests.
- The sections that follow define PCEP objects and TLVs that
          contain Flags fields, and some flag values are defined.  Future
          specifications may define further flags, and each new specification
          that defines additional flags is expected to describe the
          interaction between these new flags and any existing flags.  In
          particular, new specifications are expected to explain how to handle
          the cases when both new and pre-existing flags are set.

<a name="SRPflags"></a>
## Flags Field of the SRP Object

[RFC8231](#RFC8231) defines the PCEP SRP object.  It describes
           the Flags field as:

- Flags (32 bits): None defined yet.

This document updates that text as follows:

- Flags (32 bits): This document does not define any flags.  Unassigned flags
                 **MUST** be set to zero on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on receipt.
                 Implementations that do not understand any particular flag **MUST** ignore the
                 flag.

<a name="Backward"></a>
# Compatibility Considerations

While one of the main objectives of the changes made by this document
      is to enable backward compatibility, there remains an issue of
      compatibility between existing implementations of RFC 8231 and
      implementations that are consistent with this document.

It should be noted that common behavior for Flags fields is as
      described by the updated text presented in [Section 3](#update).  Thus, many implementations, lacking guidance from
      RFC 8231, will still have implemented a consistent and future-proof
      approach.  However, for completeness, it is worth noting how behaviors
      might interact between implementations.

SRP objects generated by an implementation of this document will set
      all unknown flag bits to zero and will therefore cause no issues to an
      older implementation even if it inspects those bits.  Similarly, an
      implementation of this document will not inspect any unknown flag bits
      and will therefore be unaffected by older implementations no matter how
      they set the flags.

There will remain an issue with compatibility between implementations
      and how they set the flags. An implementation of RFC 8231 might set any
      of the unassigned flags, but an implementation of a future or current
      specification (such as [RFC8281](#RFC8281) or
      [RFC8741](#RFC8741)) assigns specific meanings to
      a flag if set. That problem cannot be fixed in old implementations by
      any amount of documentation and can only be handled for future
      specifications by obsoleting the Flags field and using a new technique.
      Fortunately, however, most implementations will have been constructed to
      set unused flags to zero, which is consistent with the behavior
      described in this document, and so the risk of bad interactions is
      sufficiently small that there is no need to obsolete the existing Flags
      field.

<a name="Management"></a>
# Management Considerations

Implementations receiving set SRP flags that they do not recognize **MAY** log this.  That could
          be helpful for diagnosing backward compatibility issues with future features that utilize those
          flags.

<a name="Security"></a>
# Security Considerations

[RFC8231](#RFC8231) sets out security considerations for PCEP when used for communication
         with a stateful PCE.  This document does not change those considerations.

However, by defining the expected behavior of implementations, this
      document may improve the stability of networks and thus reduce the
      attack surface.  That is, by reminding implementations to ignore unset
      bits, it is less possible to attack them by randomly tweaking bits.
      Furthermore, by reminding implementations to leave undefined bits unset,
      the network is future-proofed against new definitions of previously
      undefined bits.

<a name="IANA"></a>
# IANA Considerations

IANA maintains a registry called the "Path Computation Element
      Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry with a subregistry called "SRP Object
      Flag Field". IANA has updated the reference for that
      subregistry to list this document in addition to
      [RFC8281](#RFC8281).

<a name="references"></a>
# References

## Normative References

<a name="RFC2119"></a> **[RFC2119]** S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>

<a name="RFC8174"></a> **[RFC8174]** B. Leiba, "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174, May 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>

<a name="RFC8231"></a> **[RFC8231]** E. Crabbe, I. Minei, J. Medved, R. Varga, "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE", RFC 8231, DOI 10.17487/RFC8231, September 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

<a name="RFC8281"></a> **[RFC8281]** E. Crabbe, I. Minei, S. Sivabalan, R. Varga, "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a Stateful PCE Model", RFC 8281, DOI 10.17487/RFC8281, December 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

## Informative References

<a name="RFC4657"></a> **[RFC4657]** J. Ash, J.L. Le Roux, "Path Computation Element (PCE) Communication Protocol Generic Requirements", RFC 4657, DOI 10.17487/RFC4657, September 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4657>

<a name="RFC5440"></a> **[RFC5440]** JP. Vasseur, JL. Le Roux, "Path Computation Element (PCE) Communication Protocol (PCEP)", RFC 5440, DOI 10.17487/RFC5440, March 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

<a name="RFC8741"></a> **[RFC8741]** A. Raghuram, A. Goddard, J. Karthik, S. Sivabalan, M. Negi, "Ability for a Stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) to Request and Obtain Control of a Label Switched Path (LSP)", RFC 8741, DOI 10.17487/RFC8741, March 2020. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8741>

<a name="Acknowledgements"></a>
# Acknowledgements

Thanks to the authors of [RFC8741](#RFC8741)
      for exposing the need for this work.  Thanks to Dhruv       Dhody and Julien Meuric for discussing the
      solution.  Additional thanks to Hariharan       Ananthakrishnan for his Shepherd's review.  Thanks to Benjamin Kaduk and Alvaro Retana for
      helpful comments during IESG review.

<a name="authors-addresses"></a>
# Author's Address

**Adrian Farrel**

- Organization: Old Dog Consulting
- Email: adrian@olddog.co.uk
