# OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing

**RFC 8666**
*Stream: IETF*

**Category:** std
**Submission Type:** IETF
**Consensus:** true
**IPR:** trust200902
**Doc Name:** draft-ietf-ospf-ospfv3-segment-routing-extensions-23

## Authors

- Peter Psenak *(Editor)*
  - Cisco Systems, Inc.
  - Email: ppsenak@cisco.com
- Stefano Previdi *(Editor)*
  - Cisco Systems, Inc.
  - Email: stefano@previdi.net

**Date:** 12 2019

**Area:** Routing

**Workgroup:** Open Shortest Path First IGP

**Keywords:** MPLS, SID, IGP, OSPF, Label advertisement, Segment Routing

## Related Documents

- [prev](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-ospf-ospfv3-segment-routing-extensions-23)
- [alternate](https://dx.doi.org/10.17487/rfc8666)
- [alternate](urn:issn:2070-1721)

## Abstract

Segment Routing (SR) allows a flexible definition of end-to-end
      paths within IGP topologies by encoding paths as sequences of
      topological subpaths called "segments". These segments are advertised
      by the link-state routing protocols (IS-IS and OSPF).

This document describes the OSPFv3 extensions required for Segment Routing
      with the MPLS data plane.

## Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
            (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
            received public review and has been approved for publication by
            the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further
            information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of 
            RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any
            errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
            [https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8666](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8666).

## Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2019 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
            document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
            Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
            ([https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info](https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info)) in effect on the date of
            publication of this document. Please review these documents
            carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
            respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
            document must include Simplified BSD License text as described in
            Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
            warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

## Table of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#section-1)
- [2. Terminology](#section-2)
- [3. Segment Routing Identifiers](#section-3)
  - [3.1. SID/Label Sub-TLV](#SIDLABEL)
- [4. Segment Routing Capabilities](#SRCAP)
- [5. OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV](#PFXRANGE)
- [6. Prefix-SID Sub-TLV](#PREFIXSID)
- [7. Adjacency Segment Identifier (Adj-SID)](#ADJSID)
  - [7.1. Adj-SID Sub-TLV](#ADJSIDSUBTLV)
  - [7.2. LAN Adj-SID Sub-TLV](#LANADJSIDSUBTLV)
- [8. Elements of Procedure](#section-8)
  - [8.1. Intra-area Segment Routing in OSPFv3](#section-8.1)
  - [8.2. Inter-area Segment Routing in OSPFv3](#section-8.2)
  - [8.3. Segment Routing for External Prefixes](#section-8.3)
  - [8.4. Advertisement of Adj-SID](#section-8.4)
    - [8.4.1. Advertisement of Adj-SID on Point-to-Point Links](#section-8.4.1)
    - [8.4.2. Adjacency SID on Broadcast or NBMA Interfaces](#section-8.4.2)
- [9. IANA Considerations](#IANA)
  - [9.1. "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA TLVs" Registry](#EPLTLVREG)
  - [9.2. "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs" Registry](#EXTLSAREG)
- [10. TLV/Sub-TLV Error Handling                                                                                            
](#Error-handling)
- [11. Security Considerations](#Security)
- [12. References](#section-12)
  - [12.1. Normative References](#section-12.1)
  - [12.2. Informative References](#section-12.2)
- [Contributors](#Acknowledgements)
- [Authors' Addresses](#authors-addresses)

# Introduction

Segment Routing (SR) allows a flexible definition of end-to-end paths
      within IGP topologies by encoding paths as sequences of topological
      subpaths called "segments". These segments are advertised by the
      link-state routing protocols (IS-IS and OSPF). Prefix segments represent
      an ECMP-aware shortest path to a prefix (or a node) as per the state of
      the IGP topology. Adjacency segments represent a hop over a specific
      adjacency between two nodes in the IGP. A prefix segment is typically a
      multi-hop path while an adjacency segment, in most cases, is a one-hop
      path. SR's control plane can be applied to both IPv6 and MPLS data
      planes, and it does not require any additional signaling (other than IGP
      extensions). The IPv6 data plane is out of the scope of this
      specification; the OSPFv3 extension for SR with the IPv6 data plane will be
      specified in a separate document.  When used in MPLS networks, SR paths
      do not require any LDP or RSVP-TE signaling.  However, SR can
      interoperate in the presence of Label Switched Paths (LSPs) established with RSVP or LDP.

This document describes the OSPFv3 extensions required for Segment
      Routing with the MPLS data plane.

Segment Routing architecture is described in [RFC8402](#RFC8402).

Segment Routing use cases are described in [RFC7855](#RFC7855).

# Terminology

This section lists some of the terminology used in this document:

**ABR:**
  Area Border Router

**Adj-SID:**
  Adjacency Segment Identifier

**AS:**
  Autonomous System

**ASBR:**
  Autonomous System Boundary Router

**DR:**
  Designated Router

**IS-IS:**
  Intermediate System to Intermediate System

**LDP:**
  Label Distribution Protocol

**LSP:**
  Label Switched Path

**MPLS:**
  Multiprotocol Label Switching

**OSPF:**
  Open Shortest Path First

**SPF:**
  Shortest Path First

**RSVP:**
  Resource Reservation Protocol

**SID:**
  Segment Identifier

**SR:**
  Segment Routing

**SRGB:**
  Segment Routing Global Block

**SRLB:**
  Segment Routing Local Block

**SRMS:**
  Segment Routing Mapping Server

**TLV:**
  Type Length Value


The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**NOT RECOMMENDED**",
    "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as
    described in BCP 14 [RFC2119](#RFC2119) [RFC8174](#RFC8174) 
    when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

# Segment Routing Identifiers

Segment Routing defines various types of Segment Identifiers (SIDs):
      Prefix-SID, Adjacency SID, and LAN Adjacency SID.

<a name="SIDLABEL"></a>
## SID/Label Sub-TLV

The SID/Label sub-TLV appears in multiple TLVs or sub-TLVs defined
        later in this document. It is used to advertise the SID or label
        associated with a prefix or adjacency. The SID/Label sub-TLV has the following
        format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      SID/Label (variable)                     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
```

where:

- Type:
              7
              Length:
              3 or 4 octets.
              SID/Label:
              If the length is set to 3, then the 20 rightmost bits
            represent a label. If the length is set to 4, then the value represents
            a 32-bit SID.

<a name="SRCAP"></a>
# Segment Routing Capabilities

Segment Routing requires some additional router capabilities to be advertised to 
      other routers in the area.

These SR capabilities are advertised in the OSPFv3 Router Information Opaque LSA 
      (defined in [RFC7770](#RFC7770)) and specified in 
      [RFC8665](#RFC8665).

<a name="PFXRANGE"></a>
# OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV

In some cases, it is useful to advertise attributes for a range of
      prefixes in a single advertisement. The SR Mapping Server, 
      which is described in [RFC8661](#RFC8661),
      is an example of where SIDs for multiple prefixes can be advertised. To
      optimize such advertisement in case of multiple prefixes from a
      contiguous address range, OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV is defined.

The OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV is a top-level TLV of the following LSAs
      defined in [RFC8362](#RFC8362):

- E-Intra-Area-Prefix-LSA
- E-Inter-Area-Prefix-LSA
- E-AS-External-LSA
- E-Type-7-LSA

Multiple OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLVs **MAY** be advertised in each LSA mentioned 
      above. The OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV has the following
      format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Prefix Length |       AF      |         Range Size            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Flags      |                 Reserved                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Address Prefix (variable)                 |
|                           ...                                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Sub-TLVs (variable)                      |
+-                                                             -+
|                                                               |
```

where:

- Type:
            9
            Length:
            Variable, in octets, depending on the sub-TLVs.
            Prefix Length:
            Length of prefix in bits.
            AF:
            Address family for the prefix.
              AF:
                0 - IPv4 unicast
                AF:
                1 - IPv6 unicast
            Range Size:
            Represents the number of prefixes that are covered by the
            advertisement. The Range Size **MUST NOT** exceed the number of	
			prefixes that could be satisfied by the Prefix Length without	
			including:
              Addresses from the IPv4 multicast address range (224.0.0.0/3), if the 
            		AF is IPv4 unicast.
                Addresses other than the IPv6 unicast addresses, if the
            		AF is IPv6 unicast.
            Flags:
            Reserved. **MUST** be zero when sent and are ignored when received.
            Reserved:
            **SHOULD** be set to 0 on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on reception.
            Address Prefix:
            For the address family IPv4 unicast, the prefix itself is 
               encoded as a 32-bit value. The default route is represented by a prefix of 
               length 0.
                For the address family IPv6 unicast, the prefix is encoded as an even
multiple of 32-bit words and padded with zeroed bits as necessary. This
encoding consumes ((PrefixLength + 31) / 32) 32-bit words.
                Prefix encoding for other address families is beyond the scope of
               this specification. Prefix encoding for other address families can
               be defined in future Standards Track specifications from the IETF stream.

The range represents the contiguous set of prefixes with the same prefix length 
     as specified by the Prefix Length field. The set starts with the prefix that is 
     specified by the Address Prefix field. The number of prefixes in the range is equal 
     to the Range Size.

If the OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLVs advertising the exact same range appears 
     in multiple LSAs of the same type, originated by the same OSPFv3 router, the LSA with
     the numerically smallest Instance ID **MUST** be used, and subsequent instances of the 
     OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLVs **MUST** be ignored.

<a name="PREFIXSID"></a>
# Prefix-SID Sub-TLV

The Prefix-SID sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the following OSPFv3 TLVs as
        defined in [RFC8362](#RFC8362) and in [Section 5](#PFXRANGE):

- Intra-Area Prefix TLV
- Inter-Area Prefix TLV
- External Prefix TLV
- OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV

It **MAY** appear more than once in the parent TLV and has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Type            |            Length             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Flags     |  Algorithm    |           Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       SID/Index/Label (variable)              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
```

where:

- Type:
            4
            Length:
            7 or 8 octets, depending on the V-Flag.
            Flags:
            Single-octet field. The following flags are defined:
              0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7 
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
|  |NP|M |E |V |L |  |  |
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
              where:
              NP-Flag:
                No-PHP (Penultimate Hop Popping) Flag. If set, then the penultimate hop **MUST NOT** pop the Prefix-SID before delivering packets to the
                node that advertised the Prefix-SID.
                M-Flag:
                Mapping Server Flag.  If set, the SID was advertised
                by an SR Mapping Server as described in 
                [RFC8661](#RFC8661).
                E-Flag:
                Explicit Null Flag. If set, any upstream neighbor 
                of the Prefix-SID originator **MUST** replace the Prefix-SID with 
                the Explicit NULL label (0 for IPv4, 2 for IPv6) before forwarding the packet.
                V-Flag:
                Value/Index Flag. If set, then the Prefix-SID 
                carries an absolute value. If not set, then the Prefix-SID carries 
                an index.
                L-Flag:
                Local/Global Flag. If set, then the value/index 
                carried by the Prefix-SID has local significance. If not set, then
                the value/index carried by this sub-TLV has global significance.
                Other bits:
                Reserved. These **MUST** be zero when sent and are ignored when
                received.
            Reserved:
            **SHOULD** be set to 0 on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on reception.
            Algorithm:
            Single octet identifying the algorithm the Prefix-SID
            is associated with as defined in the IGP Algorithm Types registry 
            [ALGOREG](#ALGOREG).
              A router receiving a Prefix-SID from a remote node and with an algorithm 
            value that the remote node has not advertised in the SR-Algorithm TLV
            [RFC8665](#RFC8665) **MUST** ignore the 
            Prefix-SID sub-TLV.
            SID/Index/Label:
            According to the V-Flag and L-Flag, it contains:
              V-Flag is set to 0 and L-Flag is set to 0: The SID/Index/Label
            field is a 4-octet index defining the offset in the SID/Label
            space advertised by this router.
                V-Flag is set to 1 and L-Flag is set to 1: The SID/Index/Label
            field is a 3-octet local label where the 20 rightmost bits are
            used for encoding the label value.
                All other combinations of V-Flag and L-Flag are invalid and
            any SID Advertisement received with an invalid setting for V- and
            L-Flags **MUST** be ignored.

If an OSPFv3 router advertises multiple Prefix-SIDs for the same prefix,
        topology, and algorithm, all of them **MUST** be ignored.

When calculating the outgoing label for the prefix, the router **MUST**
        take into account, as described below, the E-, NP-, and M-Flags advertised by the 
        next-hop router if that router advertised the SID for the prefix.  This **MUST** be done
        regardless of whether the next-hop router contributes to the best path to the
        prefix.

The NP-Flag (No-PHP) **MUST** be set and the E-Flag **MUST** be clear for Prefix-SIDs 
        allocated to prefixes that are propagated between areas by an ABR based on 
        intra-area or inter-area reachability, unless the advertised prefix is directly 
        attached to such ABR.

The NP-Flag (No-PHP) **MUST** be set and the E-Flag **MUST** be clear for Prefix-SIDs 
        allocated to redistributed prefixes, unless the redistributed prefix is directly
        attached to the advertising ASBR.

If the NP-Flag is not set, then:

- Any upstream neighbor of the Prefix-SID
        originator **MUST** pop the Prefix-SID. This is equivalent to the
	penultimate hop-popping mechanism used in the MPLS data plane.
- The received E-Flag is ignored.

If the NP-Flag is set and the E-Flag is not set, then:

- Any upstream neighbor of the Prefix-SID originator **MUST** keep the
        Prefix-SID on top of the stack.  This is useful when the originator of
        the Prefix-SID needs to stitch the incoming packet into a continuing
        MPLS LSP to the final destination.  This could occur at an ABR (prefix
        propagation from one area to another) or at an ASBR (prefix
        propagation from one domain to another).

If both the NP-Flag and E-Flag are set, then:

- Any upstream neighbor of the Prefix-SID originator 
         **MUST** replace the Prefix-SID with an Explicit NULL label. This
         is useful, e.g., when the originator of the Prefix-SID is the final destination
         for the related prefix and the originator wishes to receive the packet with the 
         original Traffic Class field [RFC5462](#RFC5462).

When the M-Flag is set, the NP-Flag and the E-Flag **MUST** be ignored on reception.

As the Mapping Server does not specify the originator of a prefix advertisement,
        it is not possible to determine PHP behavior solely based on the Mapping Server 
        Advertisement. However, PHP behavior **SHOULD** be done in the following cases:

- The Prefix is intra-area type and the downstream neighbor is the originator 
        	of the prefix.
- The Prefix is inter-area type and the downstream neighbor is an ABR, which is 
        	advertising prefix reachability and is setting the LA-bit in the Prefix 
        	Options as described in [RFC8362](#RFC8362).
- The Prefix is external type and the downstream neighbor is an ASBR, which is 
        	advertising prefix reachability and is setting the LA-bit in the Prefix 
        	Options as described in [RFC8362](#RFC8362).

When a Prefix-SID is advertised in the OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV, then
         the value advertised in the Prefix-SID sub-TLV is interpreted as a starting 
         SID/Label value.

Example 1: If the following router addresses (loopback addresses)
        need to be mapped into the corresponding Prefix-SID indexes:

```

          Router-A: 2001:DB8::1/128, Prefix-SID: Index 1
          Router-B: 2001:DB8::2/128, Prefix-SID: Index 2
          Router-C: 2001:DB8::3/128, Prefix-SID: Index 3
          Router-D: 2001:DB8::4/128, Prefix-SID: Index 4
```

then the Address Prefix field in the OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV would be set
        to 2001:DB8::1, the Prefix Length would be set to 128, the Range Size would be set to 4, and 
        the Index value in the Prefix-SID sub-TLV would be set to 1.

Example 2: If the following prefixes need to be mapped into the
        corresponding Prefix-SID indexes:

```

          2001:DB8:1::0/120,   Prefix-SID: Index 51
          2001:DB8:1::100/120, Prefix-SID: Index 52
          2001:DB8:1::200/120, Prefix-SID: Index 53
          2001:DB8:1::300/120, Prefix-SID: Index 54
          2001:DB8:1::400/120, Prefix-SID: Index 55
          2001:DB8:1::500/120, Prefix-SID: Index 56
          2001:DB8:1::600/120, Prefix-SID: Index 57
```

then the Prefix field in the OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV would be set 
        to 2001:DB8:1::0, the Prefix Length would be set to 120, the Range Size would be set to 7,
        and the Index value in the Prefix-SID sub-TLV would be set to 51.

<a name="ADJSID"></a>
# Adjacency Segment Identifier (Adj-SID)

An Adjacency Segment Identifier (Adj-SID) represents a router
      adjacency in Segment Routing.

<a name="ADJSIDSUBTLV"></a>
## Adj-SID Sub-TLV

The Adj-SID sub-TLV is an optional sub-TLV of the Router-Link TLV as defined in 
        [RFC8362](#RFC8362). It **MAY** appear multiple times
        in the Router-Link TLV. 
        
        The Adj-SID sub-TLV has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Type            |              Length           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Flags         |     Weight    |             Reserved          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   SID/Label/Index (variable)                  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
```

where:

- Type:
              5
              Length:
              7 or 8 octets, depending on the V-Flag.
              Flags:
              Single-octet field containing the following flags:
                0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |B|V|L|G|P|     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                where:
                B-Flag:
                  Backup Flag. If set, the Adj-SID refers to an
                adjacency that is eligible for protection (e.g., using IP Fast
		Reroute (IPFRR) or MPLS-FRR (MPLS Fast Reroute)) as
                described in [RFC8402](#RFC8402).
                  V-Flag:
                  Value/Index Flag. If set, then the Adj-SID 
                carries an absolute value. If not set, then the Adj-SID carries 
                an index.
                  L-Flag:
                  Local/Global Flag. If set, then the value/index 
                carried by the Adj-SID has local significance. If not set, then
                the value/index carried by this sub-TLV has global significance.
                  G-Flag:
                  Group Flag. When set, the G-Flag indicates that the 
                Adj-SID refers to a group of adjacencies (and therefore **MAY** be assigned
                to other adjacencies as well).
                  P-Flag.
                  Persistent Flag. When set, the P-Flag indicates that	
			    the Adj-SID is persistently allocated, i.e., the Adj-SID value	
			    remains the same across router restart and/or interface flap.
                  Other bits:
                  Reserved. These **MUST** be zero when sent and are 
                ignored when received.
              Reserved:
              **SHOULD** be set to 0 on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on reception.
              Weight:
              Weight used for load-balancing purposes. The use of the
            weight is defined in [RFC8402](#RFC8402).
              SID/Index/Label:
              As described in [Section 6](#PREFIXSID).

An SR-capable router **MAY** allocate an Adj-SID for each of its
        adjacencies and set the B-Flag when the adjacency is eligible for protection by an
        FRR mechanism (IP or MPLS) as described in [RFC8402](#RFC8402).

An SR-capable router **MAY** allocate more than one Adj-SID to an adjacency.

An SR-capable router **MAY** allocate the same Adj-SID to different adjacencies.

When the P-Flag is not set, the Adj-SID **MAY** be persistent. When	
	    the P-Flag is set, the Adj-SID **MUST** be persistent.

<a name="LANADJSIDSUBTLV"></a>
## LAN Adj-SID Sub-TLV

The LAN Adjacency SID is an optional sub-TLV of the Router-Link
        TLV. It **MAY** appear multiple times in the Router-Link TLV. It is used
        to advertise a SID/Label for an adjacency to a non-DR router on a
        broadcast, Non-Broadcast Multi-Access (NBMA), or hybrid [RFC6845](#RFC6845) network.

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |            Length             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Flags     |     Weight    |            Reserved           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           Neighbor ID                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    SID/Label/Index (variable)                 |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
```

where:

- Type:
              6
              Length:
              11 or 12 octets, depending on the V-Flag.
              Flags:
              Same as in [Section 7.1](#ADJSIDSUBTLV).
              Weight:
              Weight used for load-balancing purposes. The use of the
            weight is defined in [RFC8402](#RFC8402).
              Reserved:
              **SHOULD** be set to 0 on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on reception.
              Neighbor ID:
              The Router ID of the neighbor for which the LAN Adjacency SID is 
            advertised.
              SID/Index/Label:
              As described in [Section 6](#PREFIXSID).
                When the P-Flag is not set, the LAN Adjacency SID **MAY** be persistent. When	
	        the P-Flag is set, the LAN Adjacency SID **MUST** be persistent.

# Elements of Procedure

## Intra-area Segment Routing in OSPFv3

An OSPFv3 router that supports Segment Routing **MAY** advertise Prefix-
        SIDs for any prefix to which it is advertising reachability (e.g.,
        a loopback IP address as described in [Section 6](#PREFIXSID)).

A Prefix-SID can also be advertised by SR Mapping Servers (as
        described in [RFC8661](#RFC8661)). A Mapping
        Server advertises Prefix-SIDs for remote prefixes that exist in the
        OSPFv3 routing domain. Multiple Mapping Servers can advertise Prefix-SIDs 
        for the same prefix, in which case the same Prefix-SID **MUST** be advertised by
        all of them. The SR Mapping Server could use either area flooding scope or
        autonomous system flooding scope when advertising Prefix-SIDs for
        prefixes, based on the configuration of the SR Mapping Server.
        Depending on the flooding scope used, the SR Mapping Server chooses the
        OSPFv3 LSA type that will be used. If the area flooding scope is needed,
        an E-Intra-Area-Prefix-LSA [RFC8362](#RFC8362)
        is used. If autonomous system flooding scope is needed,
        an E-AS-External-LSA [RFC8362](#RFC8362) is used.

When a Prefix-SID is advertised by the Mapping Server, which is
        indicated by the M-Flag in the Prefix-SID sub-TLV ([Section 6](#PREFIXSID)), the route type as implied by
        the LSA type is ignored and the Prefix-SID is bound to the
        corresponding prefix independent of the route type.

Advertisement of the Prefix-SID by the Mapping Server using an
        Inter-Area Prefix TLV, External-Prefix TLV, or Intra-Area-Prefix TLV
        [RFC8362](#RFC8362) does not itself
        contribute to the prefix reachability. The NU-bit [RFC5340](#RFC5340) **MUST** be set in the
        PrefixOptions field of the LSA, which is used by the Mapping Server to
        advertise SID or SID Range, which prevents the advertisement from contributing to
        prefix reachability.

An SR Mapping Server **MUST** use the OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLVs when advertising SIDs
        for prefixes. Prefixes of different route types can be combined in a single OSPFv3 
        Extended Prefix Range TLV advertised by an SR Mapping Server.

Area-scoped OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLVs are propagated between areas, similar 
        to propagation of prefixes between areas. Same rules that are used for propagating 
        prefixes between areas [RFC5340](#RFC5340) are used for the propagation of 
        the prefix ranges.

## Inter-area Segment Routing in OSPFv3

In order to support SR in a multiarea environment, OSPFv3 **MUST**
        propagate Prefix-SID information between areas. The following
        procedure is used to propagate Prefix-SIDs between areas.

When an OSPFv3 ABR advertises an Inter-Area-Prefix-LSA from an
        intra-area prefix to all its connected areas, it will also include the
        Prefix-SID sub-TLV as described in [Section 6](#PREFIXSID). The
        Prefix-SID value will be set as follows:

- The ABR will look at its best path to the prefix in the source area
            and find the advertising router associated with the best
            path to that prefix.
- The ABR will then determine if this router advertised a Prefix-SID	
			for the prefix and use it when advertising the Prefix-SID to other	
			connected areas.
- If no Prefix-SID was advertised for the prefix in the source
            area by the router that contributes to the best path to the
            prefix, the originating ABR will use the Prefix-SID advertised by any
            other router when propagating the Prefix-SID for the prefix to other areas.

When an OSPFv3 ABR advertises an Inter-Area-Prefix-LSA from an
        inter-area route to all its connected areas, it will also include the
        Prefix-SID sub-TLV as described in [Section 6](#PREFIXSID). The
        Prefix-SID value will be set as follows:

- The ABR will look at its best path to the prefix in the backbone
            area and find the advertising router associated with the best
            path to that prefix.
- The ABR will then determine if this router advertised a Prefix-SID
            for the prefix and use it when advertising the Prefix-SID to other
            connected areas.
- If no Prefix-SID was advertised for the prefix in the backbone
            area by the ABR that contributes to the best path to the prefix,
            the originating ABR will use the Prefix-SID advertised by any
            other router when propagating the Prefix-SID for the prefix to other areas.

## Segment Routing for External Prefixes

AS-External-LSAs are flooded domain wide. When an ASBR, which
        supports SR, originates an E-AS-External-LSA, it **SHOULD** also include
        a Prefix-SID sub-TLV as described in [Section 6](#PREFIXSID).
        The Prefix-SID value will be set to the SID that has been reserved for
        that prefix.

When a Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) [RFC3101](#RFC3101) ABR
        translates an E-NSSA-LSA into an E-AS-External-LSA, it **SHOULD** also
        advertise the Prefix-SID for the prefix. The NSSA ABR determines its
        best path to the prefix advertised in the translated E-NSSA-LSA and
        finds the advertising router associated with that path.  If the
        advertising router has advertised a Prefix-SID for the prefix, then
        the NSSA ABR uses it when advertising the Prefix-SID for the
        E-AS-External-LSA. Otherwise, the Prefix-SID advertised by any other
        router will be used.

## Advertisement of Adj-SID

The Adjacency Segment Routing Identifier (Adj-SID) is advertised
        using the Adj-SID sub-TLV as described in [Section 7](#ADJSID).

### Advertisement of Adj-SID on Point-to-Point Links

An Adj-SID **MAY** be advertised for any adjacency on a
          point-to-point (P2P) link that is in neighbor state 2-Way or
          higher. If the adjacency on a P2P link transitions from the FULL
          state, then the Adj-SID for that adjacency **MAY** be removed from the
          area. If the adjacency transitions to a state lower than 2-Way, then
          the Adj-SID Advertisement **MUST** be withdrawn from the area.

### Adjacency SID on Broadcast or NBMA Interfaces

Broadcast, NBMA, or hybrid [RFC6845](#RFC6845) networks in OSPFv3 are 
          represented by a star topology where the DR is the central 
          point to which all other routers on the broadcast, NBMA, or hybrid network connect. 
          As a result, routers on the broadcast, NBMA, or hybrid network advertise only
          their adjacency to the DR. Routers that do not act as DR do not form or advertise
          adjacencies with each other. They do, however, maintain 2-Way adjacency state
          with each other and are directly reachable.

When Segment Routing is used, each router on the broadcast, NBMA, or hybrid
          network **MAY** advertise the Adj-SID for its adjacency to the DR using the
          Adj-SID sub-TLV as described in [Section 7.1](#ADJSIDSUBTLV).

SR-capable routers **MAY** also advertise a LAN
          Adjacency SID for other neighbors (e.g., Backup Designated Router
          (BDR), DR-OTHER, etc.) on the broadcast, NBMA, or hybrid network
          using the LAN Adj-SID sub-TLV as described in [Section 7.2](#LANADJSIDSUBTLV).

<a name="IANA"></a>
# IANA Considerations

This specification updates two existing OSPFv3 registries.

<a name="EPLTLVREG"></a>
## "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA TLVs" Registry

The following values have been allocated:

**Table: OSPFv3 Extended-LSA TLVs**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 9 | OSPFv3 Extended Prefix Range TLV | This document |

<a name="EXTLSAREG"></a>
## "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs" Registry

The following values have been allocated:

**Table: OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4 | Prefix-SID sub-TLV | This document |
| 5 | Adj-SID sub-TLV | This document |
| 6 | LAN Adj-SID sub-TLV | This document |
| 7 | SID/Label sub-TLV | This document |

<a name="Error-handling"></a>
# TLV/Sub-TLV Error Handling

For any new TLVs/sub-TLVs defined in this document, if the length is
invalid, the LSA in which it is advertised is considered malformed and
**MUST** be ignored. Errors **SHOULD** be logged subject
to rate limiting.

<a name="Security"></a>
# Security Considerations

With the OSPFv3 Segment Routing extensions defined herein,
      OSPFv3 will now program the MPLS data plane [RFC3031](#RFC3031).
      Previously, LDP [RFC5036](#RFC5036) or 
      another label distribution mechanism was required to advertise MPLS labels and 
      program the MPLS data plane.

In general, the same types of attacks that can be carried out on the IP
      control plane can be carried out on the MPLS control plane resulting in traffic
      being misrouted in the respective data planes. However, the latter can be more
      difficult to detect and isolate.

Existing security extensions, as described in [RFC5340](#RFC5340) and
       [RFC8362](#RFC8362), apply to these Segment Routing
       extensions. While OSPFv3 is under a single administrative domain, there can be 
       deployments where potential attackers have access to one or more networks in the
       OSPFv3 routing domain. In these deployments, stronger authentication mechanisms,
       such as those specified in [RFC4552](#RFC4552) or 
       [RFC7166](#RFC7166),
       **SHOULD** be used.

Implementations **MUST** ensure that malformed TLVs and sub-TLVs defined in this document 
       are detected and that they do not provide a vulnerability for attackers to crash the OSPFv3 
       router or routing process. Reception of a malformed TLV or sub-TLV **SHOULD** be counted 
       and/or logged for further analysis. Logging of malformed TLVs and sub-TLVs **SHOULD**
       be rate limited to prevent a Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack (distributed or otherwise) 
       from overloading the OSPFv3 control plane.

<a name="references"></a>
# References

## Normative References

<a name="ALGOREG"></a> **[ALGOREG]** "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters", <https://www.iana.org/assignments/igp-parameters>

<a name="RFC2119"></a> **[RFC2119]** S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>

<a name="RFC3031"></a> **[RFC3031]** E. Rosen, A. Viswanathan, R. Callon, "Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture", RFC 3031, DOI 10.17487/RFC3031, January 2001. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3031>

<a name="RFC3101"></a> **[RFC3101]** P. Murphy, "The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option", RFC 3101, DOI 10.17487/RFC3101, January 2003. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3101>

<a name="RFC5036"></a> **[RFC5036]** L. Andersson, I. Minei, B. Thomas, "LDP Specification", RFC 5036, DOI 10.17487/RFC5036, October 2007. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5036>

<a name="RFC5340"></a> **[RFC5340]** R. Coltun, D. Ferguson, J. Moy, A. Lindem, "OSPF for IPv6", RFC 5340, DOI 10.17487/RFC5340, July 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

<a name="RFC5462"></a> **[RFC5462]** L. Andersson, R. Asati, "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Stack Entry: "EXP" Field Renamed to "Traffic Class" Field", RFC 5462, DOI 10.17487/RFC5462, February 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5462>

<a name="RFC6845"></a> **[RFC6845]** N. Sheth, L. Wang, J. Zhang, "OSPF Hybrid Broadcast and Point-to-Multipoint Interface Type", RFC 6845, DOI 10.17487/RFC6845, January 2013. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6845>

<a name="RFC7770"></a> **[RFC7770]** A. Lindem, N. Shen, JP. Vasseur, R. Aggarwal, S. Shaffer, "Extensions to OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities", RFC 7770, DOI 10.17487/RFC7770, February 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

<a name="RFC8174"></a> **[RFC8174]** B. Leiba, "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174, May 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>

<a name="RFC8362"></a> **[RFC8362]** A. Lindem, A. Roy, D. Goethals, V. Reddy Vallem, F. Baker, "OSPFv3 Link State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility", RFC 8362, DOI 10.17487/RFC8362, April 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

<a name="RFC8402"></a> **[RFC8402]** C. Filsfils, S. Previdi, L. Ginsberg, B. Decraene, S. Litkowski, R. Shakir, "Segment Routing Architecture", RFC 8402, DOI 10.17487/RFC8402, July 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

<a name="RFC8661"></a> **[RFC8661]** A Bashandy, C Filsfils, S Previdi, B Decraene, S Litkowski, "Segment Routing MPLS Interworking with LDP", RFC 8661, DOI 10.17487/RFC8661, December 2019. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8661>

<a name="RFC8665"></a> **[RFC8665]** P Psenak, S Previdi, C Filfils, H Gredler, R Shakir, W Henderickx, J Tantsura, "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing", RFC 8665, DOI 10.17487/RFC8665, December 2019. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

## Informative References

<a name="RFC4552"></a> **[RFC4552]** M. Gupta, N. Melam, "Authentication/Confidentiality for OSPFv3", RFC 4552, DOI 10.17487/RFC4552, June 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4552>

<a name="RFC7166"></a> **[RFC7166]** M. Bhatia, V. Manral, A. Lindem, "Supporting Authentication Trailer for OSPFv3", RFC 7166, DOI 10.17487/RFC7166, March 2014. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7166>

<a name="RFC7855"></a> **[RFC7855]** S. Previdi, C. Filsfils, B. Decraene, S. Litkowski, M. Horneffer, R. Shakir, "Source Packet Routing in Networking (SPRING) Problem Statement and Requirements", RFC 7855, DOI 10.17487/RFC7855, May 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7855>

<a name="Acknowledgements"></a>
# Contributors

The following people gave a substantial contribution to the content
      of this document and should be considered coauthors:

Thanks to Acee Lindem for his substantial contribution to the content of 
      this document.

We would like to thank Anton Smirnov for his contribution as well.

<a name="authors-addresses"></a>
# Authors' Addresses

**Peter Psenak**

- Organization: Cisco Systems, Inc.
- Address: Eurovea Centre, Central 3, Bratislava, 81109, Slovakia
- Email: ppsenak@cisco.com

**Stefano Previdi**

- Organization: Cisco Systems, Inc.
- Email: stefano@previdi.net
