# Extended Message Support for BGP

**RFC 8654**
*Stream: IETF*

**Category:** std
**Updates:** 4271
**Submission Type:** IETF
**Consensus:** true
**IPR:** trust200902
**Doc Name:** draft-ietf-idr-bgp-extended-messages-36

## Authors

- Randy Bush
  - Arrcus & IIJ
  - Email: randy@psg.com
- Keyur Patel
  - Arrcus, Inc.
  - Email: keyur@arrcus.com
- Dave Ward
  - Cisco Systems
  - Email: dward@cisco.com

**Date:** 10 2019

## Related Documents

- [prev](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-idr-bgp-extended-messages-36)
- [alternate](https://dx.doi.org/10.17487/rfc8654)
- [alternate](urn:issn:2070-1721)

## Abstract

The BGP specification (RFC 4271) mandates a maximum BGP message size of 4,096
    octets.  As BGP is extended to support new Address Family Identifiers
    (AFIs), Subsequent AFIs (SAFIs), and other
    features, there is a need to extend the maximum message size beyond
    4,096 octets.  This document updates the BGP specification by
    extending the maximum message size from 4,096 octets to 65,535 octets
    for all messages except for OPEN and KEEPALIVE messages.

## Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
            (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
            received public review and has been approved for publication by
            the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further
            information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of 
            RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any
            errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
            [https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8654](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8654).

## Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2019 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
            document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
            Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
            ([https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info](https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info)) in effect on the date of
            publication of this document. Please review these documents
            carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
            respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
            document must include Simplified BSD License text as described in
            Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
            warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

## Table of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#introduction)
  - [1.1. Requirements Language](#sec-term)
- [2. BGP Extended Message](#extmsg)
- [3. BGP Extended Message Capability](#section-3)
- [4. Operation](#opns)
- [5. Error Handling](#error)
- [6. Changes to RFC 4271](#rfc4171)
- [7. IANA Considerations](#IANA)
- [8. Security Considerations](#Security)
- [9. References](#section-9)
  - [9.1. Normative References](#section-9.1)
  - [9.2. Informative References](#section-9.2)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgements)
- [Authors' Addresses](#authors-addresses)

<a name="introduction"></a>
# Introduction

The BGP specification [RFC4271](#RFC4271) mandates a maximum
    BGP message size of 4,096 octets.  As BGP is extended to support
    new AFIs, SAFIs, and other capabilities (e.g., BGPsec [RFC8205](#RFC8205) and BGP - Link
    State (BGP-LS) [RFC7752](#RFC7752)), there is a
    need to extend the maximum message size beyond 4,096 octets. This
    document provides an extension to BGP to extend the message size limit
    from 4,096 octets to 65,535 octets for all messages except for OPEN and
    KEEPALIVE messages.

<a name="sec-term"></a>
## Requirements Language

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**NOT RECOMMENDED**",
    "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as
    described in BCP 14 [RFC2119](#RFC2119) [RFC8174](#RFC8174) 
    when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

<a name="extmsg"></a>
# BGP Extended Message

A BGP message over 4,096 octets in length is a BGP Extended
    Message.

BGP Extended Messages have a maximum message size of 65,535
    octets.  The smallest message that may be sent is a BGP
    KEEPALIVE, which consists of 19 octets.

# BGP Extended Message Capability

The BGP Extended Message Capability is a new BGP capability [RFC5492](#RFC5492) defined with Capability Code 6 and
      Capability Length 0.

To advertise the BGP Extended Message Capability to a peer, a BGP
      speaker uses BGP Capabilities Advertisement [RFC5492](#RFC5492).  By advertising the BGP Extended Message Capability
      to a peer, a BGP speaker conveys that it is able to receive and properly
      handle BGP Extended Messages (see [Section 4](#opns)).

Peers that wish to use the BGP Extended Message Capability **MUST**
    support error handling for BGP UPDATE messages per [RFC7606](#RFC7606).

<a name="opns"></a>
# Operation

The BGP Extended Message Capability applies to all messages except
    for OPEN and KEEPALIVE messages.  These exceptions 
    reduce the complexity of providing backward compatibility.

A BGP speaker that is capable of receiving BGP
    Extended Messages **SHOULD** advertise the BGP Extended Message
    Capability to its peers using BGP Capabilities Advertisement [RFC5492](#RFC5492).  A BGP speaker **MAY**
    send BGP Extended Messages to a
    peer only if the BGP Extended Message Capability was received from that
    peer.

An implementation that advertises the BGP Extended Message
    Capability **MUST** be capable of receiving a message with a length up
    to and including 65,535 octets.

Applications generating information that might be encapsulated
    within BGP messages **MUST** limit the size of their payload to take the
    maximum message size into account.

If a BGP message with a length greater than 4,096 octets is
    received by a BGP listener who has not advertised the BGP Extended
    Message Capability, the listener will generate a NOTIFICATION with
    the Error Subcode set to Bad Message Length ([RFC4271](#RFC4271)).

A BGP UPDATE will (if allowed by policy, best path, etc.) typically
    propagate throughout the BGP-speaking Internet and hence to BGP
    speakers that may not support BGP Extended Messages.  Therefore, an
    announcement in a BGP Extended Message where the size of the attribute
    set plus the NLRI is larger than 4,096 octets may cause lack of
    reachability.

A BGP speaker that has advertised the BGP Extended Message
    Capability to its peers may receive an UPDATE from one of its peers
    that produces an ongoing announcement that is larger than 4,096
    octets.  When propagating that UPDATE onward to a neighbor that has
    not advertised the BGP Extended Message Capability, the speaker
    **SHOULD** try to reduce the outgoing message size by removing
    attributes eligible under the "attribute discard" approach of [RFC7606](#RFC7606).  If the message is still too big, then it must
    not be sent to the neighbor ([RFC4271](#RFC4271)).

    Additionally, if the NLRI was previously advertised to that peer, it
    must be withdrawn from service ([RFC4271](#RFC4271)).

If an Autonomous System (AS) has multiple internal BGP speakers
    and also has multiple external BGP neighbors, care must be taken to ensure a consistent view within the
    AS in order to present a consistent
    external view. In the context of BGP Extended Messages, a
    consistent view can only be guaranteed if all the Internal BGP (iBGP) speakers
    advertise the BGP Extended Message Capability.  If that is not the
    case, then the operator should consider whether or not the BGP Extended
    Message Capability should be advertised to external peers.

During the incremental deployment of BGP Extended Messages and
    use of the "attribute discard" approach of [RFC7606](#RFC7606) in an iBGP mesh or with
    External BGP (eBGP) peers, the
    operator should monitor any routes dropped and any discarded
    attributes.

<a name="error"></a>
# Error Handling

A BGP speaker that has the ability to use BGP Extended Messages but
    has not advertised the BGP Extended Message Capability, presumably
    due to configuration, **MUST NOT** accept a BGP Extended Message.  A
    speaker **MUST NOT** implement a more liberal policy accepting BGP
    Extended Messages.

A BGP speaker that does not advertise the BGP Extended Message
    Capability might also genuinely not support BGP Extended Messages.  Such
    a speaker will follow the error-handling procedures of [RFC4271](#RFC4271) if it receives a BGP Extended Message.  Similarly,
    any speaker that treats an improper BGP Extended Message as a fatal
    error **MUST** follow the error-handling procedures of [RFC4271](#RFC4271).

Error handling for UPDATE messages, as specified in 
    [RFC4271](#RFC4271), is unchanged.  However, if a
    NOTIFICATION is to be sent to a BGP speaker that has not advertised
    the BGP Extended Message Capability, the size of the message **MUST NOT** exceed 4,096 octets.

It is **RECOMMENDED** that BGP protocol developers and implementers
    are conservative in their application and use of BGP Extended Messages.
    Future protocol specifications **MUST** describe how to handle peers
    that can only accommodate 4,096 octet messages.

<a name="rfc4171"></a>
# Changes to RFC 4271

[RFC4271](#RFC4271) states "The value of the Length field
    **MUST** always be at least 19 and no greater than 4096."  This document
    changes the latter number to 65,535 for all messages except for OPEN and
    KEEPALIVE messages.

[RFC4271](#RFC4271) specifies
      raising an error if the length of a message is over 4,096 octets.  For
      all messages except for OPEN and KEEPALIVE messages, if the receiver has advertised the
      BGP Extended Message Capability, this document raises that limit to
      65,535.

<a name="IANA"></a>
# IANA Considerations

IANA has made the following allocation in the "Capability Codes"
      registry:

**Table: Addition to "Capability Codes" Registry**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 6 | BGP Extended Message | RFC 8654 |

<a name="Security"></a>
# Security Considerations

This extension to BGP does not change BGP's underlying security
    issues [RFC4272](#RFC4272).

Due to increased memory requirements for buffering, there may be
    increased exposure to resource exhaustion, intentional or
    unintentional.

If a remote speaker is able to craft a large BGP Extended Message
    to send on a path where one or more peers do not support BGP
    Extended Messages, peers that support BGP Extended Messages may:

- act to reduce the outgoing message (see [Section 4](#opns)) and, in doing so, cause an attack by discarding
    attributes one or more of its peers may be expecting.  The attributes eligible under the
    "attribute discard" approach must have no effect on route selection or
    installation [RFC7606](#RFC7606).
- act to reduce the outgoing message (see [Section 4](#opns)) and, in doing so, allow a downgrade attack.  This
      would only affect the attacker's message, where 'downgrade' has
      questionable meaning.
- incur resource load (processing, message resizing, etc.)
    when reformatting the large messages.

<a name="references"></a>
# References

## Normative References

<a name="RFC2119"></a> **[RFC2119]** S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>

<a name="RFC4271"></a> **[RFC4271]** Y. Rekhter, T. Li, S. Hares, "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)", RFC 4271, DOI 10.17487/RFC4271, January 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4271>

<a name="RFC5492"></a> **[RFC5492]** J. Scudder, R. Chandra, "Capabilities Advertisement with BGP-4", RFC 5492, DOI 10.17487/RFC5492, February 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5492>

<a name="RFC7606"></a> **[RFC7606]** E. Chen, J. Scudder, P. Mohapatra, K. Patel, "Revised Error Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages", RFC 7606, DOI 10.17487/RFC7606, August 2015. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

<a name="RFC8174"></a> **[RFC8174]** B. Leiba, "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174, May 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>

## Informative References

<a name="RFC4272"></a> **[RFC4272]** S. Murphy, "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis", RFC 4272, DOI 10.17487/RFC4272, January 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

<a name="RFC7752"></a> **[RFC7752]** H. Gredler, J. Medved, S. Previdi, A. Farrel, S. Ray, "North-Bound Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP", RFC 7752, DOI 10.17487/RFC7752, March 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7752>

<a name="RFC8205"></a> **[RFC8205]** M. Lepinski, K. Sriram, "BGPsec Protocol Specification", RFC 8205, DOI 10.17487/RFC8205, September 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8205>

<a name="acknowledgements"></a>
# Acknowledgments

The authors thank Alvaro Retana for an amazing review; Enke Chen,
     Susan Hares, John Scudder, John Levine, and Job Snijders for their
     input; and Oliver Borchert and Kyehwan Lee for their implementations
     and testing.

<a name="authors-addresses"></a>
# Authors' Addresses

**Randy Bush**

- Organization: Arrcus & IIJ
- Address: 5147 Crystal Springs, Bainbridge Island, WA, 98110, United States of America
- Email: randy@psg.com

**Keyur Patel**

- Organization: Arrcus, Inc.
- Email: keyur@arrcus.com

**Dave Ward**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Address: 170 W. Tasman Drive, San Jose, CA, 95134, United States of America
- Email: dward@cisco.com
