# IS-IS Extensions in Support of Inter-Autonomous System (AS) MPLS and GMPLS Traffic Engineering
*(IS-IS Extensions for Inter-AS TE)*

**RFC 9346**
*Stream: IETF*

**Category:** std
**Obsoletes:** 5316
**Submission Type:** IETF
**Consensus:** true
**IPR:** trust200902
**Doc Name:** draft-ietf-lsr-isis-rfc5316bis-07

## Authors

- Mach(Guoyi) Chen
  - Huawei
  - Email: mach.chen@huawei.com
- Les Ginsberg
  - Cisco Systems
  - Email: ginsberg@cisco.com
- Stefano Previdi
  - Huawei Technologies
  - Email: stefano@previdi.net
- Xiaodong Duan
  - China Mobile
  - Email: duanxiaodong@chinamobile.com

**Date:** 02 2023

**Area:** rtg

**Workgroup:** lsr

**Keywords:** ISIS, Inter-AS, TE

## Related Documents

- [prev](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-lsr-isis-rfc5316bis-07)
- [alternate](https://dx.doi.org/10.17487/rfc9346)
- [alternate](urn:issn:2070-1721)

## Abstract

This document describes extensions to the Intermediate System to
      Intermediate System (IS-IS) protocol to support Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Traffic Engineering (TE)
      for multiple Autonomous Systems (ASes). It defines IS-IS extensions for
      the flooding of TE information about inter-AS links, which can be used
      to perform inter-AS TE path computation.

No support for flooding information from within one AS to another AS
      is proposed or defined in this document.

This document builds on RFC 5316 by adding support for IPv6-only
      operation.

This document obsoletes RFC 5316.

## Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
            (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
            received public review and has been approved for publication by
            the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further
            information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of 
            RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any
            errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
            [https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9346](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9346).

## Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
            document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
            Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
            ([https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info](https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info)) in effect on the date of
            publication of this document. Please review these documents
            carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
            respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
            document must include Revised BSD License text as described in
            Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
            warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

## Table of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#INTRO)
  - [1.1. Requirements Language](#section-1.1)
- [2. Problem Statement](#_PROB)
  - [2.1. A Note on Non-objectives](#non-objectives)
  - [2.2. Per-Domain Path Determination](#determiniation)
  - [2.3. Backward-Recursive Path Computation](#section-2.3)
- [3. Extensions to IS-IS TE](#_SOL)
  - [3.1. Choosing the TE Router ID Value](#_RID)
  - [3.2. Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV](#inter-as)
  - [3.3. TE Router ID](#section-3.3)
  - [3.4. Sub-TLVs for Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV](#section-3.4)
    - [3.4.1. Remote AS Number Sub-TLV](#remote-as)
    - [3.4.2. IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier Sub-TLV](#ipv4-remote)
    - [3.4.3. IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier Sub-TLV](#ipv6-remote)
    - [3.4.4. IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier Sub-TLV](#ipv6-local)
  - [3.5. Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV](#section-3.5)
    - [3.5.1. IPv4 TE Router ID Sub-TLV](#section-3.5.1)
    - [3.5.2. IPv6 TE Router ID Sub-TLV](#section-3.5.2)
- [4. Procedure for Inter-AS TE Links](#_Procedure)
  - [4.1. Origin of Proxied TE Information](#te-info)
- [5. Security Considerations](#Security)
- [6. IANA Considerations](#IANA)
  - [6.1. Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV](#inter-as-reachability)
  - [6.2. Sub-TLVs for the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV](#sub-tlv-inter-as)
  - [6.3. Sub-TLVs for the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV](#sub-tlv-is-is)
- [7. References](#section-7)
  - [7.1. Normative References](#section-7.1)
  - [7.2. Informative References](#section-7.2)
- [Appendix A. Changes to RFC 5316](#section-appendix.a)
- [Acknowledgements](#section-appendix.b)
- [Authors' Addresses](#authors-addresses)

<a name="INTRO"></a>
# Introduction

[RFC5305](#RFC5305) defines extensions to the IS-IS protocol
      [RFC1195](#RFC1195) to support intra-area Traffic Engineering (TE).
      The extensions provide a way of encoding the TE information for
      TE-enabled links within the network (TE links) and flooding this
      information within an area. The extended IS reachability TLV and Traffic
      Engineering router ID TLV, which are defined in [RFC5305](#RFC5305), are used to carry such TE information. The extended
      IS reachability TLV has several nested sub-TLVs that describe the TE
      attributes for a TE link.

[RFC6119](#RFC6119) and [RFC5307](#RFC5307) define similar
      extensions to IS-IS in support of IPv6 and
      GMPLS TE, respectively.

Requirements for establishing Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) TE
      Label Switched Paths (LSPs) that cross multiple Autonomous Systems
      (ASes) are described in [RFC4216](#RFC4216). As described in [RFC4216](#RFC4216), a method **SHOULD** provide the ability to compute a
      path spanning multiple ASes. So a path computation entity that may be
      the head-end Label Switching Router (LSR), an AS Border Router (ASBR),
      or a Path Computation Element (PCE) [RFC4655](#RFC4655) needs to
      know the TE information not only of the links within an AS but also of
      the links that connect to other ASes.

In this document, the Inter-AS
      Reachability Information TLV is defined to advertise inter-AS TE information, and
      four sub-TLVs are defined for inclusion in the Inter-AS Reachability
      Information TLV to carry the information about the Remote AS Number, Remote
      ASBR Identifier, and IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier. The sub-TLVs defined in
      [RFC5305](#RFC5305), [RFC6119](#RFC6119),
      and other documents for inclusion in the extended IS reachability TLV
      for describing the TE properties of a TE link are applicable to be
      included in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV for describing the TE
      properties of an inter-AS TE link as well. Also, two more sub-TLVs
      are defined for inclusion in the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV to carry
      the TE Router ID when the TE Router ID is needed to reach all routers
      within an entire IS-IS routing domain. The extensions are equally
      applicable to
      IPv4 and IPv6 as identical extensions to [RFC5305](#RFC5305) and
      [RFC6119](#RFC6119). Detailed definitions and procedures are
      discussed in the following sections.

This document does not propose or define any mechanisms to advertise
      any other extra-AS TE information within IS-IS. See [Section 2.1](#non-objectives) for a
      full list of non-objectives for this work.

## Requirements Language

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**",
	"**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**",
	"**RECOMMENDED**", "**NOT RECOMMENDED**",
	"**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be
	interpreted as described in BCP 14 [RFC2119](#RFC2119) [RFC8174](#RFC8174) when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

<a name="_PROB"></a>
# Problem Statement

As described in [RFC4216](#RFC4216), in the case of establishing
      an inter-AS TE LSP that traverses multiple ASes, the Path message [RFC3209](#RFC3209) may include the following elements in the Explicit
      Route Object (ERO) in order to describe the path of the LSP:

- a set of AS numbers as loose hops and/or
- a set of LSRs including ASBRs as loose hops.

Two methods for determining inter-AS paths have been described
      elsewhere. The per-domain method [RFC5152](#RFC5152) determines the
      path one domain at a time. The backward-recursive method [RFC5441](#RFC5441) uses cooperation between PCEs to determine an optimum
      inter-domain path. The sections that follow examine how inter-AS TE link
      information could be useful in both cases.

<a name="non-objectives"></a>
## A Note on Non-objectives

It is important to note that this document does not make any change
        to the confidentiality and scaling assumptions surrounding the use of
        ASes in the Internet. In particular, this document is conformant to
        the requirements set out in [RFC4216](#RFC4216).

The following features are explicitly excluded:

- There is no attempt to distribute TE information from within
            one AS to another AS.
- There is no mechanism proposed to distribute any form of TE
            reachability information for destinations outside the AS.
- There is no proposed change to the PCE architecture or
            usage.
- TE aggregation is not supported or recommended.
- There is no exchange of private information between ASes.
- No IS-IS adjacencies are formed on the inter-AS link.

<a name="determiniation"></a>
## Per-Domain Path Determination

In the per-domain method of determining an inter-AS path for an
        MPLS-TE LSP, when an LSR that is an entry-point to an AS receives a
        Path message from an upstream AS with an ERO containing a next hop
        that is an AS number, it needs to find which LSRs (ASBRs) within the
        local AS are connected to the downstream AS. That way, it can compute
        a TE LSP segment across the local AS to one of those LSRs and forward
        the Path message to that LSR and hence into the next AS. See Figure 1
        for an example.

**Figure 1: Inter-AS Reference Model**

```

	     R1------R3----R5-----R7------R9-----R11
                     |     | \    |      / |
                     |     |  \   |  ----  |
                     |     |   \  | /      |
             R2------R4----R6   --R8------R10----R12
                        :              :
             <-- AS1 -->:<---- AS2 --->:<--- AS3 --->

```
The figure shows three ASes (AS1, AS2, and AS3) and twelve
        LSRs (R1 through R12). R3 and R4 are ASBRs in AS1. R5, R6, R7, and R8
        are ASBRs in AS2. R9 and R10 are ASBRs in AS3.

If an inter-AS TE LSP is planned to be established from R1 to R12,
        the AS sequence will be: AS1, AS2, AS3.

Suppose that the Path message enters AS2 from R3. The next hop in
        the ERO shows AS3, and R5 must determine a path segment across AS2 to
        reach AS3. It has a choice of three exit points from AS2 (R6, R7, and
        R8), and it needs to know which of these provide TE connectivity to
        AS3 and whether the TE connectivity (for example, available
        bandwidth) is adequate for the requested LSP.

Alternatively, if the next hop in the ERO is an entry ASBR for AS3
        (say R9), R5 needs to know which of its exit ASBRs has a TE link that
        connects to R9. Since there may be multiple ASBRs that are connected
        to R9 (both R7 and R8 in this example), R5 also needs to know the TE
        properties of the inter-AS TE links so that it can select the correct
        exit ASBR.

Once the Path message reaches the exit ASBR, any choice of inter-AS
        TE link can be made by the ASBR if not already made by the entry ASBR
        that computed the segment.

More details can be found in [RFC5152](#RFC5152),
        which clearly points out why advertising of inter-AS links is
        desired.

To enable R5 to make the correct choice of exit ASBR, the following
        information is needed:

- List of all inter-AS TE links for the local AS.
- TE properties of each inter-AS TE link.
- AS number of the neighboring AS connected to by each inter-AS
            TE link.
- Identity (TE Router ID) of the neighboring ASBR connected to by
            each inter-AS TE link.

In GMPLS networks, further information may also be required
        to select the correct TE links as defined in [RFC5307](#RFC5307).

The example above shows how this information is needed at the
        entry-point ASBRs for each AS (or the PCEs that provide computation
        services for the ASBRs). However, this information is also needed
        throughout the local AS if path computation functionality is fully
        distributed among LSRs in the local AS, for example, to support LSPs
        that have start points (ingress nodes) within the AS.

## Backward-Recursive Path Computation

Another scenario using PCE techniques has the same problem. [RFC5441](#RFC5441) defines a PCE-based TE LSP computation method
        (called "Backward-Recursive Path Computation (BRPC)") to compute optimal
        inter-domain constrained MPLS-TE or GMPLS LSPs. In this path
        computation method, a specific set of traversed domains (ASes) are
        assumed to be selected before computation starts. Each downstream PCE
        in domain(i) returns to its upstream neighbor PCE in domain(i-1) a
        multipoint-to-point tree of potential paths. Each tree consists of the
        set of paths from all boundary nodes located in domain(i) to the
        destination where each path satisfies the set of required constraints
        for the TE LSP (bandwidth, affinities, etc.).

So a PCE needs to select boundary nodes (that is, ASBRs) that
        provide connectivity from the upstream AS. In order for the tree of
        paths provided by one PCE to its neighbor to be correlated, the
        identities of the ASBRs for each path need to be referenced. Thus, the
        PCE must know the identities of the ASBRs in the remote AS that are
        reached by any inter-AS TE link, and, in order to provide only
        suitable paths in the tree, the PCE must know the TE properties of the
        inter-AS TE links. See the following figure as an example.

**Figure 2: BRPC for Inter-AS Reference Model**

```

	        PCE1<------>PCE2<-------->PCE3
                /       :             :
               /        :             :
             R1------R3----R5-----R7------R9-----R11
                     |     | \    |      / |
                     |     |  \   |  ----  |
                     |     |   \  | /      |
             R2------R4----R6   --R8------R10----R12
                        :              :
             <-- AS1 -->:<---- AS2 --->:<--- AS3 --->

```
The figure shows three ASes (AS1, AS2, and AS3), three PCEs (PCE1,
        PCE2, and PCE3), and twelve LSRs (R1 through R12). R3 and R4 are ASBRs
        in AS1. R5, R6, R7, and R8 are ASBRs in AS2. R9 and R10 are ASBRs in
        AS3. PCE1, PCE2, and PCE3 cooperate to perform inter-AS path
        computation and are responsible for path segment computation within
        their own domain(s).

If an inter-AS TE LSP is planned to be established from R1 to R12,
	the traversed domains are assumed to be selected (AS1->AS2->AS3), and
	the PCE chain is PCE1->PCE2->PCE3. First, the path
        computation request originated from the Path Computation Client (PCC) (R1) is relayed by PCE1
        and PCE2 along the PCE chain to PCE3. Then, PCE3 begins to compute the
        path segments from the entry boundary nodes that provide connection
        from AS2 to the destination (R12). But, to provide suitable path
        segments, PCE3 must determine which entry boundary nodes provide
        connectivity to its upstream neighbor AS (identified by its AS
        number) and must know the TE properties of the inter-AS TE links. In
        the same way, PCE2 also needs to determine the entry boundary nodes
        according to its upstream neighbor AS and the inter-AS TE link
        capabilities.

Thus, to support BRPC, the same
        information listed in [Section 2.2](#determiniation) is required. The AS number of the
        neighboring AS connected to by each inter-AS TE link is particularly
        important.

<a name="_SOL"></a>
# Extensions to IS-IS TE

Note that this document does not define mechanisms for distribution
      of TE information from one AS to another, does not distribute any form
      of TE reachability information for destinations outside the AS, does not
      change the PCE architecture or usage, does not suggest or recommend any
      form of TE aggregation, and does not feed private information between
      ASes. See [Section 2.1](#non-objectives).

In this document, 
      the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV is defined for the advertisement of inter-AS TE links.
      Four sub-TLVs are also defined for inclusion in the Inter-AS
      Reachability Information TLV to carry the information about the neighboring AS
      number, the Remote ASBR Identifier, and IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier of an inter-AS link. The sub-TLVs defined
      in [RFC5305](#RFC5305), [RFC6119](#RFC6119), and other
      documents for inclusion in the extended IS reachability TLV are
      applicable to be included in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV for the advertisement of inter-AS
      TE links.

This document also defines two sub-TLVs for
      inclusion in the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV to carry the TE Router ID
      when the TE Router ID is needed to reach all routers within an entire
      IS-IS routing domain.

While some of the TE information of an inter-AS TE link may be
      available within the AS from other protocols, in order to avoid any
      dependency on where such protocols are processed, this mechanism carries
      all the information needed for the required TE operations.

<a name="_RID"></a>
## Choosing the TE Router ID Value

Subsequent sections specify advertisement of a TE Router ID value
	for IPv4 and/or IPv6. This section defines how this value is
	chosen.

A TE Router ID **MUST** be an address that is unique within the IS-IS
	domain and stable, i.e., it can always be referenced in a path that
	will be reachable from multiple hops away, regardless of the state
	of the node's interfaces.

When advertising an IPv4 address as a TE Router ID, if the 
	Traffic Engineering router ID TLV [RFC5305](#RFC5305) is being advertised,
	then the address **SHOULD** be identical to the address in the Traffic
	Engineering router ID TLV. The TE Router ID **MAY** be identical to an IP
	Interface Address [RFC1195](#RFC1195) advertised by the
	originating IS so long as the address meets the requirements specified
	above.

When advertising an IPv6 address as a TE Router ID, if the IPv6 TE
	Router ID TLV [RFC6119](#RFC6119) is being advertised, then the
	address	**SHOULD** be identical to the address in the IPv6 TE Router ID TLV.
	The TE Router ID **MAY** be identical to a non-link-local IPv6
	Interface Address advertised by the originating IS in a Link State
	PDU using the IPv6 Interface Address TLV [RFC5308](#RFC5308) so long as
	the address meets the requirements specified above.

<a name="inter-as"></a>
## Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV

The Inter-AS Reachability  Information TLV has type 141 (see [Section 6.1](#inter-as-reachability)) and
        contains a data structure consisting of:

```

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |   Router ID                                     (4 octets)    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |   Default Metric                              | (3 octets)
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Flags     |                                 (1 octet)
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |Sub-TLVs Length|                                 (1 octet)
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
   | Sub-TLVs ...                                    (0-246 octets)
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

```

Flags consists of the following:

```

       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |S|D| Rsvd      |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

where:

**S bit:**
  If the S bit is set(1), the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV
     **MUST** be flooded across the entire routing domain.  If the S bit is
     not set(0), the TLV **MUST NOT** be leaked between levels.  This bit **MUST NOT** be altered during the TLV leaking.

**D bit:**
  When the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV is leaked from
     Level 2 (L2) to Level 1 (L1), the D bit **MUST** be set.  Otherwise, this
     bit **MUST** be clear.  Inter-AS Reachability Information TLVs with the D bit set
     **MUST NOT** be leaked from Level 1 to Level 2. This is to prevent TLV
     looping.

**Reserved (Rsvd):**
  Reserved bits **MUST** be zero when originated and ignored
     when received.


Compared to the extended IS reachability TLV, which is defined
        in [RFC5305](#RFC5305), the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV replaces
        the "7 octets of System ID and Pseudonode Number" field with a "4
        octets of Router ID" field and introduces an extra "control
        information" field, which consists of a flooding-scope bit (S bit), an
        up/down bit (D bit), and 6 reserved bits.

The Router ID field of the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV is 4 octets in
        length and has a value as defined in [Section 3.1](#_RID). If the
        originating node does not support IPv4, then the reserved value
        0.0.0.0 **MUST** be used in the Router ID field, and the IPv6 Router ID
        sub-TLV **MUST** be present in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV. The Router
        ID could be used to indicate the source of the Inter-AS Reachability
        Information TLV.

The flooding procedures for the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV are identical
        to the flooding procedures for the GENINFO TLV, which are defined in
        [RFC6823](#RFC6823). These procedures have been
        previously discussed in [RFC7981](#RFC7981). The flooding-scope
        bit (S bit) **SHOULD** be set to 0 if the flooding scope is to be limited
        to within the single IGP area to which the ASBR belongs. It **MAY** be set
        to 1 if the information is intended to reach all routers (including
        area border routers, ASBRs, and PCEs) in the entire IS-IS routing
        domain. The choice between the use of 0 or 1 is an AS-wide policy
        choice, and configuration control **SHOULD** be provided in ASBR
        implementations that support the advertisement of inter-AS TE
        links.

The sub-TLVs defined in [RFC5305](#RFC5305), [RFC6119](#RFC6119), and other documents for describing the TE
        properties of a TE link are also applicable to the Inter-AS
        Reachability Information TLV for describing the TE properties of an inter-AS TE
        link. Apart from these sub-TLVs, four sub-TLVs are defined for
        inclusion in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV defined in this
        document:

| Sub-TLV type | Length | Name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 24 | 4 | Remote AS Number |
| 25 | 4 | IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier |
| 26 | 16 | IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier |
| 45 | 16 | IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier |

Detailed definitions of these four sub-TLVs are described
        in Sections [3.4.1](#remote-as), [3.4.2](#ipv4-remote), [3.4.3](#ipv6-remote), and [3.4.4](#ipv6-local).

## TE Router ID

The Traffic Engineering router ID TLV and IPv6 TE Router ID TLV,
	which are
        defined in [RFC5305](#RFC5305) and [RFC6119](#RFC6119),
        respectively, only have area flooding scope. When performing inter-AS
        TE, the TE Router ID **MAY** be needed to reach all routers within an
        entire IS-IS routing domain, and it **MUST** have the same flooding scope
        as the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV does.

[RFC7981](#RFC7981) defines a generic advertisement mechanism
        for IS-IS, which allows a router to advertise its capabilities within
        an IS-IS area or an entire IS-IS routing domain. [RFC7981](#RFC7981) also points out that the TE Router ID is a
        candidate to be carried in the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV when
        performing inter-area TE.

This document uses such mechanism for TE Router ID advertisement
        when the TE Router ID is needed to reach all routers within an entire
        IS-IS routing domain. Two sub-TLVs are defined for inclusion in
        the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV to carry the TE Router IDs.

| Sub-TLV type | Length | Name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 11 | 4 | IPv4 TE Router ID |
| 12 | 16 | IPv6 TE Router ID |

Detailed definitions of these sub-TLVs are described in
        Sections [3.4.1](#remote-as) and [3.4.2](#ipv4-remote).

## Sub-TLVs for Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV

<a name="remote-as"></a>
### Remote AS Number Sub-TLV

The Remote AS Number sub-TLV is defined for
          inclusion in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV when advertising inter-AS
          links. The Remote AS Number sub-TLV specifies the AS number of the
          neighboring AS to which the advertised link connects.

The Remote AS Number sub-TLV is TLV type 24 (see [Section 6.2](#sub-tlv-inter-as)) and
          is 4 octets in length. The format is as follows:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Remote AS Number                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

The Remote AS Number field has 4 octets. When only 2
          octets are used for the AS number, the
          left (high-order) 2 octets **MUST** be set to 0. The Remote AS Number
          sub-TLV **MUST** be included when a router advertises an inter-AS TE
          link.

<a name="ipv4-remote"></a>
### IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier Sub-TLV

The IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier
          sub-TLV is defined for inclusion in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV
          when advertising inter-AS links. The IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV
          specifies the IPv4 identifier of the remote ASBR to which the
          advertised inter-AS link connects. The value advertised is selected
	  as defined in [Section 3.1](#_RID).

The IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV is TLV type 25 (see [Section 6.2](#sub-tlv-inter-as))
          and is 4 octets in length. The format of the IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier
          sub-TLV is as follows:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Remote ASBR Identifier                     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

The IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV **MUST** be included if the
          neighboring ASBR has an IPv4 address. If the neighboring ASBR does
          not have an IPv4 address, the IPv6
          Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV **MUST** be included instead. An IPv4 Remote ASBR
          Identifier sub-TLV and IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV **MAY** both be present in an
          extended IS reachability TLV.

<a name="ipv6-remote"></a>
### IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier Sub-TLV

The IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier
          sub-TLV is defined for inclusion in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV
          when advertising inter-AS links. The IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV
          specifies the IPv6 identifier of the remote ASBR to which the
          advertised inter-AS link connects. The value advertised is selected
	  as defined in [Section 3.1](#_RID).

The IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV is TLV type 26 (see [Section 6.2](#sub-tlv-inter-as))
          and is 16 octets in length. The format of the IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier
          sub-TLV is as follows:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Remote ASBR Identifier                     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Remote ASBR Identifier (continued)         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Remote ASBR Identifier (continued)         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Remote ASBR Identifier (continued)         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

The IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV **MUST** be included if the
          neighboring ASBR has an IPv6 address. If the neighboring ASBR does
          not have an IPv6 address, the IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV **MUST** be
          included instead. An IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier sub-TLV and IPv6 Remote
          ASBR Identifier sub-TLV **MAY** both be present in an extended IS reachability
          TLV.

<a name="ipv6-local"></a>
### IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier Sub-TLV

The IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier sub-TLV is defined for inclusion in the
   Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV when advertising inter-AS links.  The IPv6
   Local ASBR Identifier sub-TLV specifies the IPv6 identifier of the remote
   ASBR to which the advertised inter-AS link connects.  The value
   advertised is selected as defined in [Section 3.1](#_RID).

The IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier sub-TLV is TLV type 45 (see [Section 6.2](#sub-tlv-inter-as))
          and is 16 octets in length. The format of the IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier
	  sub-TLV is as follows:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Local ASBR Identifier                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Local ASBR Identifier (continued)          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Local ASBR Identifier (continued)          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Local ASBR Identifier (continued)          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

If the originating node does not support IPv4, the IPv6 Local
          ASBR Identifier sub-TLV **MUST** be present in the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV.
          Inter-AS Reachability Information TLVs that have a Router ID of 0.0.0.0 and do
          not have the IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier sub-TLV present **MUST** be ignored.

## Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV

### IPv4 TE Router ID Sub-TLV

The IPv4 TE Router ID sub-TLV is TLV type 11 (see [Section 6.3](#sub-tlv-is-is))
          and is 4 octets in length. The format of the IPv4 TE Router ID
          sub-TLV is as follows:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       TE Router ID                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

The value advertised is selected as defined in
	    [Section 3.1](#_RID).

When the TE Router ID is needed to reach all routers within an
          entire IS-IS routing domain, the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV **MUST** be
          included in its LSP. If an ASBR supports Traffic Engineering for
          IPv4 and if the ASBR has an IPv4 TE Router ID, the IPv4 TE Router ID
          sub-TLV **MUST** be included. If the ASBR does not have an IPv4 TE
          Router ID, the IPv6 TE Router ID sub-TLV **MUST** be included instead. An
          IPv4 TE Router ID sub-TLV and IPv6 TE Router ID sub-TLV **MAY** both be
          present in an IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV.

### IPv6 TE Router ID Sub-TLV

The IPv6 TE Router ID sub-TLV is TLV type 12 (see [Section 6.3](#sub-tlv-is-is))
          and is 16 octets in length. The format of the IPv6 TE Router ID
          sub-TLV is as follows:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       TE Router ID                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       TE Router ID   (continued)              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       TE Router ID   (continued)              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       TE Router ID   (continued)              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

The value advertised is selected as defined in
	    [Section 3.1](#_RID).

When the TE Router ID is needed to reach all routers within an
          entire IS-IS routing domain, the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV **MUST** be
          included in its LSP. If an ASBR supports Traffic Engineering for
          IPv6 and if the ASBR has an IPv6 TE Router ID, the IPv6 TE Router ID
          sub-TLV **MUST** be included. If the ASBR does not have an IPv6 TE
          Router ID, the IPv4 TE Router ID sub-TLV **MUST** be included instead. An
          IPv4 TE Router ID sub-TLV and IPv6 TE Router ID sub-TLV **MAY** both be
          present in an IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV.

<a name="_Procedure"></a>
# Procedure for Inter-AS TE Links

When TE is enabled on an inter-AS link and the link is up, the ASBR
      **SHOULD** advertise this link using the normal procedures for [RFC5305](#RFC5305). When either the link is down or TE is disabled on
      the link, the ASBR **SHOULD** withdraw the advertisement. When there are
      changes to the TE parameters for the link (for example, when the
      available bandwidth changes), the ASBR **SHOULD** re-advertise the link but
      **MUST** take precautions against excessive re-advertisements.

Hellos **MUST NOT** be exchanged over the inter-AS link, and
      consequently, an IS-IS adjacency **MUST NOT** be formed.

The information advertised comes from the ASBR's knowledge of the TE
      capabilities of the link, the ASBR's knowledge of the current status and
      usage of the link, and configuration at the ASBR of the Remote AS Number
      and remote ASBR TE Router ID.

Legacy routers receiving an advertisement for an inter-AS TE link are
      able to ignore it because they do not know the TLV and sub-TLVs that
      are defined in [Section 3](#_SOL) of this document. They will continue to flood
      the LSP but will not attempt to use the information received.

In the current operation of IS-IS TE, the LSRs at each end of a TE
      link emit LSPs describing the link. The databases in the LSRs then have
      two entries (one locally generated, the other from the peer) that
      describe the different 'directions' of the link. This enables
      Constrained Shortest Path First (CSPF) to do a two-way check on the link
      when performing path computation and eliminate it from consideration
      unless both directions of the link satisfy the required constraints.

In the case we are considering here (i.e., of a TE link to another
      AS), there is, by definition, no IGP peering and hence no bidirectional
      TE link information. In order for the CSPF route computation entity to
      include the link as a candidate path, we have to find a way to get LSPs
      describing its (bidirectional) TE properties into the TE database.

This is achieved by the ASBR advertising, internally to its AS,
      information about both directions of the TE link to the next AS. The
      ASBR will normally generate an LSP describing its own side of a link;
      here, we have it 'proxy' for the ASBR at the edge of the other AS and
      generate an additional LSP that describes that device's 'view' of the
      link.

Only some essential TE information for the link needs to be
      advertised, i.e., the Interface Address, the Remote AS Number, and the
      Remote ASBR Identifier of an inter-AS TE link.

Routers or PCEs that are capable of processing advertisements of
      inter-AS TE links **SHOULD NOT** use such links to compute paths that exit
      an AS to a remote ASBR and then immediately re-enter the AS through
      another TE link. Such paths would constitute extremely rare occurrences
      and **SHOULD NOT** be allowed except as the result of specific policy
      configurations at the router or PCE computing the path.

<a name="te-info"></a>
## Origin of Proxied TE Information

[Section 4](#_Procedure) describes how an ASBR advertises TE link information as a
        proxy for its neighbor ASBR but does not describe where this
        information comes from.

Although the source of the information described in [Section 4](#_Procedure)
	is outside the scope of
        this document, it is possible that it will be a configuration
        requirement at the ASBR, as are other local properties of the TE link.
        Further, where BGP is used to exchange IP routing information between
        the ASBRs, a certain amount of additional local configuration about
        the link and the remote ASBR is likely to be available.

We note further that it is possible, and may be operationally
        advantageous, to obtain some of the required configuration information
        from BGP. Whether and how to utilize these possibilities is an
        implementation matter.

<a name="Security"></a>
# Security Considerations

The protocol extensions defined in this document are relatively minor
      and can be secured within the AS in which they are used by the existing
      IS-IS security mechanisms (e.g., using the cleartext passwords or Hashed
      Message Authentication Codes,
      which are defined in [RFC1195](#RFC1195), [RFC5304](#RFC5304), and [RFC5310](#RFC5310) separately).

There is no exchange of information between ASes and no change to
      the IS-IS security relationship between the ASes. In particular, since
      no IS-IS adjacency is formed on the inter-AS links, there is no
      requirement for IS-IS security between the ASes.

Some of the information included in these advertisements (e.g.,
      the Remote AS Number and the Remote ASBR Identifier) is obtained manually from a
      neighboring administration as part of a commercial relationship. The
      source and content of this information should be carefully checked
      before it is entered as configuration information at the ASBR
      responsible for advertising the inter-AS TE links.

It is worth noting that, in the scenario we are considering, a Border
      Gateway Protocol (BGP) peering may exist between the two ASBRs and that
      this could be used to detect inconsistencies in configuration (e.g., the
      administration that originally supplied the information may provide
      incorrect information, or
      some manual misconfigurations or mistakes may be made by the
      operators). For example, if a different Remote AS Number is received in
      a BGP OPEN [RFC4271](#RFC4271) from that locally configured to
      IS-IS TE, as we describe here, then local policy **SHOULD** be applied to
      determine whether to alert the operator to a potential misconfiguration
      or to suppress the IS-IS advertisement of the inter-AS TE link.
      Advertisement of incorrect information could result in an inter-AS TE
      LSP that traverses an unintended AS. Note
      further that, if BGP is used to exchange TE information as described in
      [Section 4.1](#te-info), the inter-AS BGP session **SHOULD** be secured using mechanisms
      such as described in [RFC5925](#RFC5925) to provide authentication
      and integrity checks.

For a discussion of general security considerations for IS-IS, see
      [RFC5304](#RFC5304).

<a name="IANA"></a>
# IANA Considerations

<a name="inter-as-reachability"></a>
## Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV

IANA has registered the following IS-IS TLV type, described
        in [Section 3.1](#_RID), in the "IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints"
        registry:

| Value | Name | IIH | LSP | SNP | Purge | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 141 | Inter-AS Reachability Information | n | y | n | n | RFC 9346 |

<a name="sub-tlv-inter-as"></a>
## Sub-TLVs for the Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV

IANA has registered the following sub-TLV types of top-level TLV
        141 (see [Section 6.1](#inter-as-reachability)) in
        the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information"
        registry. These sub-TLVs are described in Sections [3.4.1](#remote-as), [3.4.2](#ipv4-remote), [3.4.3](#ipv6-remote), and
        [3.4.4](#ipv6-local).

| Value | Description | 22 | 23 | 25 | 141 | 222 | 223 | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 24 | Remote AS Number | n | n | n | y | n | n | RFC 9346 |
| 25 | IPv4 Remote ASBR Identifier | n | n | n | y | n | n | RFC 9346 |
| 26 | IPv6 Remote ASBR Identifier | n | n | n | y | n | n | RFC 9346 |
| 45 | IPv6 Local ASBR Identifier | n | n | n | y | n | n | RFC 9346 |

As described in [Section 3.1](#_RID), the sub-TLVs that are
        defined in [RFC5305](#RFC5305), [RFC6119](#RFC6119), and
        other documents for describing the TE properties of a TE link are
        applicable to describe an inter-AS TE link and **MAY** be included in the
        Inter-AS Reachability Information TLV when adverting inter-AS TE links.

<a name="sub-tlv-is-is"></a>
## Sub-TLVs for the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV

IANA has registered the following sub-TLV types of top-level
        TLV 242 (see [RFC7981](#RFC7981)) in the "IS-IS
        Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV" registry. These sub-TLVs are
        described in Sections [3.4.1](#remote-as) and
        [3.4.2](#ipv4-remote).

| Type | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 11 | IPv4 TE Router ID | RFC 9346 |
| 12 | IPv6 TE Router ID | RFC 9346 |

<a name="references"></a>
# References

## Normative References

<a name="RFC1195"></a> **[RFC1195]** R. Callon, "Use of OSI IS-IS for routing in TCP/IP and dual environments", RFC 1195, DOI 10.17487/RFC1195, December 1990. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1195>

<a name="RFC2119"></a> **[RFC2119]** S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>

<a name="RFC4271"></a> **[RFC4271]** Y. Rekhter, T. Li, S. Hares, "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)", RFC 4271, DOI 10.17487/RFC4271, January 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4271>

<a name="RFC5305"></a> **[RFC5305]** T. Li, H. Smit, "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering", RFC 5305, DOI 10.17487/RFC5305, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

<a name="RFC5308"></a> **[RFC5308]** C. Hopps, "Routing IPv6 with IS-IS", RFC 5308, DOI 10.17487/RFC5308, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5308>

<a name="RFC5925"></a> **[RFC5925]** J. Touch, A. Mankin, R. Bonica, "The TCP Authentication Option", RFC 5925, DOI 10.17487/RFC5925, June 2010. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

<a name="RFC6119"></a> **[RFC6119]** J. Harrison, J. Berger, M. Bartlett, "IPv6 Traffic Engineering in IS-IS", RFC 6119, DOI 10.17487/RFC6119, February 2011. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6119>

<a name="RFC7981"></a> **[RFC7981]** L. Ginsberg, S. Previdi, M. Chen, "IS-IS Extensions for Advertising Router Information", RFC 7981, DOI 10.17487/RFC7981, October 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7981>

<a name="RFC8174"></a> **[RFC8174]** B. Leiba, "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174, May 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>

## Informative References

<a name="RFC3209"></a> **[RFC3209]** D. Awduche, L. Berger, D. Gan, T. Li, V. Srinivasan, G. Swallow, "RSVP-TE: Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels", RFC 3209, DOI 10.17487/RFC3209, December 2001. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

<a name="RFC4216"></a> **[RFC4216]** R. Zhang, J.-P. Vasseur, "MPLS Inter-Autonomous System (AS) Traffic Engineering (TE) Requirements", RFC 4216, DOI 10.17487/RFC4216, November 2005. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4216>

<a name="RFC4655"></a> **[RFC4655]** A. Farrel, J.-P. Vasseur, J. Ash, "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based Architecture", RFC 4655, DOI 10.17487/RFC4655, August 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4655>

<a name="RFC5152"></a> **[RFC5152]** JP. Vasseur, A. Ayyangar, R. Zhang, "A Per-Domain Path Computation Method for Establishing Inter-Domain Traffic Engineering (TE) Label Switched Paths (LSPs)", RFC 5152, DOI 10.17487/RFC5152, February 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5152>

<a name="RFC5304"></a> **[RFC5304]** T. Li, R. Atkinson, "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication", RFC 5304, DOI 10.17487/RFC5304, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

<a name="RFC5307"></a> **[RFC5307]** K. Kompella, Y. Rekhter, "IS-IS Extensions in Support of Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)", RFC 5307, DOI 10.17487/RFC5307, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5307>

<a name="RFC5310"></a> **[RFC5310]** M. Bhatia, V. Manral, T. Li, R. Atkinson, R. White, M. Fanto, "IS-IS Generic Cryptographic Authentication", RFC 5310, DOI 10.17487/RFC5310, February 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>

<a name="RFC5316"></a> **[RFC5316]** M. Chen, R. Zhang, X. Duan, "ISIS Extensions in Support of Inter-Autonomous System (AS) MPLS and GMPLS Traffic Engineering", RFC 5316, DOI 10.17487/RFC5316, December 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5316>

<a name="RFC5441"></a> **[RFC5441]** JP. Vasseur, R. Zhang, N. Bitar, JL. Le Roux, "A Backward-Recursive PCE-Based Computation (BRPC) Procedure to Compute Shortest Constrained Inter-Domain Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths", RFC 5441, DOI 10.17487/RFC5441, April 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5441>

<a name="RFC6823"></a> **[RFC6823]** L. Ginsberg, S. Previdi, M. Shand, "Advertising Generic Information in IS-IS", RFC 6823, DOI 10.17487/RFC6823, December 2012. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6823>

# Changes to RFC 5316

The following is a summary of the substantive changes this document
      makes to RFC 5316. Some editorial changes were also made.

RFC 5316 only allowed a 32-bit Router ID in the fixed header of TLV
      141. This is problematic in an IPv6-only deployment where an IPv4
      address may not be available. This document specifies:

1. The Router ID should be identical to the value advertised in the
      Traffic Engineering router ID TLV (134) if available.
2. If no Traffic Engineering Router ID is assigned, the Router ID
      should be identical to an IP Interface Address [RFC1195](#RFC1195) advertised by
      the originating IS.
3. If the originating node does not support IPv4, then the reserved
      value 0.0.0.0 must be used in the Router ID field and the IPv6 Local
      ASBR Identifier sub-TLV must be present in the TLV.

# Acknowledgements

In the previous version of this document [RFC5316](#RFC5316), the authors
      thanked Adrian Farrel, Jean-Louis Le Roux, Christian Hopps,
      and Hannes Gredler for their review and comments.

<a name="authors-addresses"></a>
# Authors' Addresses

**Mach(Guoyi) Chen**

- Organization: Huawei
- Email: mach.chen@huawei.com

**Les Ginsberg**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Email: ginsberg@cisco.com

**Stefano Previdi**

- Organization: Huawei Technologies
- Address: Italy
- Email: stefano@previdi.net

**Xiaodong Duan**

- Organization: China Mobile
- Email: duanxiaodong@chinamobile.com
