# IS-IS Extensions to Support Segment Routing over the IPv6 Data Plane
*(IS-IS SRv6 Extensions)*

**RFC 9352**
*Stream: IETF*

**Category:** std
**Updates:** 7370
**Submission Type:** IETF
**Consensus:** true
**IPR:** trust200902
**Doc Name:** draft-ietf-lsr-isis-srv6-extensions-18

## Authors

- Peter Psenak *(Editor)*
  - Cisco Systems
  - Email: ppsenak@cisco.com
- Clarence Filsfils
  - Cisco Systems
  - Email: cfilsfil@cisco.com
- Ahmed Bashandy
  - Cisco Systems
  - Email: bashandy@cisco.com
- Bruno Decraene
  - Orange
  - Email: bruno.decraene@orange.com
- Zhibo Hu
  - Huawei Technologies
  - Email: huzhibo@huawei.com

**Date:** 02 2023

**Area:** Routing Area

**Workgroup:** Networking Working Group

## Related Documents

- [prev](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-lsr-isis-srv6-extensions-18)
- [alternate](https://dx.doi.org/10.17487/rfc9352)
- [alternate](urn:issn:2070-1721)

## Abstract

The Segment Routing (SR) architecture allows a flexible definition of the end-to-end
      path by encoding it as a sequence of topological elements called
      "segments". It can be implemented over the MPLS or the IPv6 data plane. 
      This document describes the IS-IS extensions required to support SR 
      over the IPv6 data plane.

This document updates RFC 7370 by modifying an existing registry.

## Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
            (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
            received public review and has been approved for publication by
            the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further
            information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of 
            RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any
            errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
            [https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9352](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9352).

## Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
            document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
            Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
            ([https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info](https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info)) in effect on the date of
            publication of this document. Please review these documents
            carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
            respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
            document must include Revised BSD License text as described in
            Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
            warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

## Table of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#section-1)
  - [1.1. Requirements Language](#req-lang)
- [2. SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV](#SRV6CAP)
- [3. Advertising Supported Algorithms](#section-3)
- [4. Advertising Maximum SRv6 SID Depths](#section-4)
  - [4.1. Maximum Segments Left MSD Type](#MAXSEGLEFT)
  - [4.2. Maximum End Pop MSD Type](#MAXSENDPOP)
  - [4.3. Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type](#MAXHENCAP)
  - [4.4. Maximum End D MSD Type](#MAXENDD)
- [5. SRv6 SIDs and Reachability](#section-5)
- [6. Advertising Anycast Property](#ANYCASTFLAG)
- [7. Advertising Locators and End SIDs](#section-7)
  - [7.1. SRv6 Locator TLV Format](#LOCTLV)
  - [7.2. SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV](#ENDTLV)
- [8. Advertising SRv6 Adjacency SIDs](#ADJSID)
  - [8.1. SRv6 End.X SID Sub-TLV](#ENDXTLV)
  - [8.2. SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLV](#LANENDXTLV)
- [9. SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV](#STRUCTTLV)
- [10. Advertising Endpoint Behaviors](#ENDBEH)
- [11. IANA Considerations](#IANA)
  - [11.1. SRv6 Locator TLV](#section-11.1)
    - [11.1.1. SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV](#section-11.1.1)
    - [11.1.2. IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry](#REVISEDREG)
  - [11.2. SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV](#section-11.2)
  - [11.3. IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for the SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Registry](#section-11.3)
  - [11.4. SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLVs](#section-11.4)
  - [11.5. MSD Types](#section-11.5)
  - [11.6. IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs Registry](#SUBTLVREGISTRY)
  - [11.7. Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV](#ANYCASTBIT)
  - [11.8. IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags Registry](#FLAGREGCAP)
  - [11.9. IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags Registry](#FLAGREGLOC)
  - [11.10. IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags Registry](#FLAGREGEND)
  - [11.11. IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags Registry](#FLAGENDX)
- [12. Security Considerations](#Security)
- [13. References](#section-13)
  - [13.1. Normative References](#section-13.1)
  - [13.2. Informative References](#section-13.2)
- [Acknowledgements](#section-appendix.a)
- [Contributors](#CONTRIB)
- [Authors' Addresses](#authors-addresses)

# Introduction

With Segment Routing (SR) [RFC8402](#RFC8402), a node steers a packet
      through an ordered list of instructions, which are called segments.

Segments are identified through Segment Identifiers (SIDs).

SR can be directly instantiated on the IPv6 data plane
      through the use of the Segment Routing Header (SRH) defined in [RFC8754](#RFC8754). 
      SRv6 refers to this SR instantiation on the IPv6 data plane.

The network programming paradigm [RFC8986](#RFC8986) is central to
      SRv6. It describes how any behavior can be bound to a SID and how any
      network program can be expressed as a combination of SIDs.

This document specifies IS-IS extensions that allow the IS-IS
      protocol to encode some of these SIDs and their behaviors.

Familiarity with the network programming paradigm [RFC8986](#RFC8986) is necessary to
      understand the extensions specified in this document.

The new SRv6 Locator top-level TLV announces SRv6 Locators -- a form of
      summary address for the set of topology-/algorithm-specific SIDs
      instantiated at the node.

The SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV announces the ability to support SRv6.

Several new sub-TLVs are defined to advertise various SRv6 Maximum SID Depths (MSDs).

The SRv6 End SID sub-TLV, the SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV, and the SRv6
      LAN End.X SID sub-TLV are used to advertise which SIDs are instantiated
      at a node and what Endpoint behavior is bound to each instantiated
      SID.

This document updates [RFC7370](#RFC7370) by modifying an existing registry
      ([Section 11.1.2](#REVISEDREG)).

<a name="req-lang"></a>
## Requirements Language

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**NOT RECOMMENDED**",
    "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as
    described in BCP 14 [RFC2119](#RFC2119) [RFC8174](#RFC8174) 
    when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

<a name="SRV6CAP"></a>
# SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

A node indicates that it supports the SR Segment Endpoint Node functionality
       as specified in [RFC8754](#RFC8754) by advertising a new SRv6 Capabilities 
       sub-TLV of the Router Capability TLV [RFC7981](#RFC7981).

The SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV may contain optional sub-sub-TLVs. No
      sub-sub-TLVs are currently defined.

The SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |            Flags              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   optional sub-sub-TLVs...

```

**Type:**
  25. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).

**Length:**
  Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589). The
     length value is 2 + length of sub-sub-TLVs.

**Flags:**
  2 octets. The following flags are defined:

  **where:**
    **O-flag:**
      If set, the router supports use of the O-bit 
           in the SRH, as defined in [RFC9259](#RFC9259).

      The remaining bits, including bit 0, are reserved for future use. They **MUST**
           be set to zero on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on receipt.




# Advertising Supported Algorithms

An SRv6-capable router indicates one or more supported algorithms by advertising the
       Segment Routing Algorithm sub-TLV, as defined in [RFC8667](#RFC8667).

# Advertising Maximum SRv6 SID Depths

[RFC8491](#RFC8491) defines the means
      to advertise node-/link-specific values for MSDs of
      various types. 
      Node MSDs are advertised in a sub-TLV of the Router
      Capability TLV [RFC7981](#RFC7981). Link MSDs are advertised in a
      sub-TLV of TLVs 22, 23, 25, 141, 222, and 223.

This document defines the relevant SRv6 MSDs and requests MSD type
      assignments in the "IGP MSD-Types" registry created by [RFC8491](#RFC8491).

<a name="MAXSEGLEFT"></a>
## Maximum Segments Left MSD Type

The Maximum Segments Left MSD Type signals the maximum value of
        the "Segments Left" field [RFC8754](#RFC8754)
        in the SRH of a received packet before applying the Endpoint behavior
        associated with a SID.

      SRH Max Segments Left Type: 41

      If no value is advertised, the supported value is 0.

<a name="MAXSENDPOP"></a>
## Maximum End Pop MSD Type

The Maximum End Pop MSD Type signals the maximum number of SIDs
        in the SRH to which the router can apply "Penultimate Segment Pop (PSP) of the SRH" or
        "Ultimate Segment Pop (USP) of the SRH" behavior, as defined in "Flavors" ([RFC8986](#RFC8986)).

      SRH Max End Pop Type: 42

      If the advertised value is zero or no value is advertised, 
	then the router cannot apply PSP or USP flavors.

<a name="MAXHENCAP"></a>
## Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type

The Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type signals the maximum number of SIDs that
        can be added to the segment list of an SRH as part of the "H.Encaps" 
        behavior, as defined in [RFC8986](#RFC8986).

      SRH Max H.encaps Type: 44

      If the advertised value is zero or no value is advertised, then the
	headend can apply an SR Policy that only contains one segment without 
	inserting any SRH header.

      A non-zero SRH Max H.encaps MSD indicates that the headend can insert
	an SRH up to the advertised number of SIDs.

<a name="MAXENDD"></a>
## Maximum End D MSD Type

The Maximum End D MSD Type specifies the maximum number of SIDs present 
        in an SRH when performing decapsulation. As specified in [RFC8986](#RFC8986),
        the permitted SID types include, but are not limited to, End.DX6, End.DT4, 
        End.DT46, End with USD, and End.X with USD.

      SRH Max End D Type: 45

      If the advertised value is zero or no value is advertised,
	then the router cannot apply any behavior that results in 
	decapsulation and forwarding of the inner packet if the 
	outer IPv6 header contains an SRH.

# SRv6 SIDs and Reachability

As discussed in [RFC8986](#RFC8986), an SRv6 Segment
      Identifier (SID) is 128 bits and consists of locator, function, and argument parts.

A node is provisioned with topology-/algorithm-specific locators for
      each of the topology/algorithm pairs supported by that node. Each
      locator is a covering prefix for all SIDs provisioned on that node that
      have the matching topology/algorithm.

Locators **MUST** be advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV (see [Section 7.1](#LOCTLV)). 
      Forwarding entries for the locators advertised in the SRv6 Locator
      TLV **MUST** be installed in the forwarding plane of receiving SRv6-capable
      routers when the associated topology/algorithm is supported by the
      receiving node. The processing of the prefix advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV,
      the calculation of its reachability, and the installation in the forwarding plane
      follows the process defined for the Prefix Reachability TLV 236 
      [RFC5308](#RFC5308) or TLV 237 [RFC5120](#RFC5120).

Locators associated with algorithms 0 and 1 (for all supported topologies)
      **SHOULD** also be advertised in a Prefix Reachability TLV (236 or 237) so that
      legacy routers (i.e., routers that do not support SRv6) will install a
      forwarding entry for algorithms 0 and 1 SRv6 traffic.

In cases where the same prefix with the same prefix length, Multi-Topology Identifier
      (MTID),  and algorithm is received in both a Prefix Reachability TLV and an SRv6
      Locator TLV, the Prefix Reachability advertisement **MUST** be preferred when installing 
      entries in the forwarding plane. This is to prevent inconsistent forwarding entries 
      between SRv6-capable and SRv6-incapable routers. Such preference of Prefix Reachability 
      advertisement does not have any impact on the rest of the data advertised in the 
      SRv6 Locator TLV.

Locators associated with Flexible Algorithms (see [RFC9350](#RFC9350)) **SHOULD NOT** be advertised 
      in Prefix Reachability TLVs (236 or 237). Advertising the Flexible 
      Algorithm locator in a regular Prefix Reachability TLV (236 or 237) would make 
      the forwarding for it follow the algorithm 0 path.

SRv6 SIDs are advertised as sub-TLVs in the SRv6 Locator TLV, except
      for SRv6 SIDs that are associated with a specific
      neighbor/link and are therefore advertised as sub-TLVs in TLVs 22, 23,
      25, 141, 222, and 223.

SRv6 SIDs received from other nodes are not directly routable and **MUST NOT** 
      be installed in the forwarding plane. Reachability to SRv6 SIDs depends upon the existence
      of a covering locator.

Adherence to the rules defined in this section will ensure that SRv6
      SIDs associated with a supported topology/algorithm pair will be
      forwarded correctly, while SRv6 SIDs associated with an unsupported
      topology/algorithm pair will be dropped. NOTE: The drop behavior depends
      on the absence of a default/summary route covering a given locator.

In order for forwarding to work correctly, the locator associated
      with SRv6 SID advertisements must be the longest match prefix installed
      in the forwarding plane for those SIDs. In order to ensure correct forwarding, 
      network operators should take steps to make sure that this requirement is not 
      compromised. For example, the following situations should be avoided:

- Another locator associated with a different topology/algorithm is
          the longest match.
- Another prefix advertisement (i.e., from TLV 236 or 237) is the longest
          match.

<a name="ANYCASTFLAG"></a>
# Advertising Anycast Property

Both prefixes and SRv6 Locators may be configured as anycast; as such, the 
      same value can be advertised by multiple routers.  It is useful for other routers 
      to know that the	advertisement is for an anycast identifier.

A new flag in the Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV [RFC7794](#RFC7794) is
      defined to advertise the anycast property:

**Bit #:**
  4

**Name:**
  Anycast Flag (A-flag)


When the prefix/SRv6 Locator is configured as anycast, the A-flag
	**SHOULD** be set. Otherwise, this flag **MUST** be clear.

The A-flag **MUST** be preserved when the advertisement is leaked between levels.

The A-flag and the N-flag **MUST NOT** both be set. If both the N-flag and the A-flag are 
      set in the prefix/SRv6 Locator advertisement, the receiving routers **MUST** ignore 
      the N-flag.

The same prefix/SRv6 Locator can be advertised by multiple routers. If at least 
      one of them sets the A-flag in its advertisement, the prefix/SRv6 Locator **SHOULD** be 
      considered as anycast.

A prefix/SRv6 Locator that is advertised by a single node and without
      an A-flag **MUST** be considered node specific.

All the nodes advertising the same anycast locator **MUST** instantiate the 
      exact same set of SIDs under that anycast locator. Failure to do so may result in 
      traffic being dropped or misrouted.

The Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV can be carried in the SRv6 
      Locator TLV as well as the Prefix Reachability TLVs. When a router originates
      both the Prefix Reachability TLV and the SRv6 Locator TLV for a given
      prefix, it **SHOULD** advertise the Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV, if used, in both TLVs and use the same flags. However, unlike TLVs 236 
      [RFC5308](#RFC5308) and 237 [RFC5120](#RFC5120),
      the X-flag in the Prefix Attributes Flags sub-TLV is valid when sent in the SRv6 
      Locator TLV. When included in the Locator TLV, the state of the X-flag in the Prefix Attributes
      Flags sub-TLV **MUST** match the setting of the embedded "X-bit" in any 
      advertisement for the same prefix in TLVs 236 [RFC5308](#RFC5308) and 237 
      [RFC5120](#RFC5120). In case of any inconsistency between the Prefix Attribute 
      Flags advertised in the Locator TLV and in the Prefix Reachability TLV, the ones 
      advertised in the Prefix Reachability TLV **MUST** be preferred.

# Advertising Locators and End SIDs

The SRv6 Locator TLV is introduced to advertise SRv6 Locators and End
      SIDs associated with each locator.

This new TLV shares the sub-TLV space defined for TLVs 135, 235, 236,
      and 237.

<a name="LOCTLV"></a>
## SRv6 Locator TLV Format

The SRv6 Locator TLV has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |R|R|R|R|    MTID               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   Locator Entries . . .                       |

```

**Type:**
  27. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).

**Length:**
  Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).
  	  The length value is variable.

**R Bits:**
  Reserved for future use. They **MUST** be
  	  set to zero on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on receipt.

**MTID:**
  Multi-Topology Identifier, as defined in [RFC5120](#RFC5120).
  	  Note that the value 0 is legal.


The SRv6 Locator TLV is followed by one or more locator entries of the form:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Metric                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Flags       |  Algorithm    |  Loc Size     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//              Locator (continued, variable)                  //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Sub-TLV-len  |         Sub-TLVs (variable) . . .             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

**Metric:**
  4 octets, as described in [RFC5305](#RFC5305).

**Flags:**
  1 octet. The following flags are defined:

    D-flag: "up/down bit" as described in
    	      [RFC5305](#RFC5305).

    The remaining bits are reserved for future use. They **MUST** be
                 set to zero on transmission and **MUST** be ignored on receipt.


**Algorithm:**
  1 octet, as defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry [RFC8665](#RFC8665).

**Loc-Size:**
  1 octet. Number of bits in the SRv6 Locator field, which 
  	  **MUST** be from the range (1-128). The entire TLV **MUST** be ignored
  	  if the Loc-Size is outside this range.

**Locator:**
  1-16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6
  	  Locator. The SRv6 Locator is encoded in the minimal number of
  	  octets for the given number of bits. Trailing bits **MUST** be set
  	  to zero and ignored when received.

**Sub-TLV-length:**
  1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-TLVs.

**Optional Sub-TLVs:**
  Supported sub-TLVs are specified in [Section 11.1.2](#REVISEDREG). 
  	  Any sub-TLV that is not allowed in the SRv6 Locator TLV **MUST** be
  	  ignored.


The Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV [RFC7794](#RFC7794)
          **SHOULD** be included in  the Locator TLV.

The Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV **MUST** be included in the Locator
	TLV when it is leaked upwards in the hierarchy or originated as a result of the
	redistribution from another protocol or another IS-IS instance. If the Prefix Attribute
	Flags sub-TLV is not included in these cases, receivers will be unable to determine the
	correct source of the advertisement. The receivers will be unable to detect the
	violation.

<a name="ENDTLV"></a>
## SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV

The SRv6 End SID sub-TLV is introduced to advertise SRv6 SIDs with Endpoint behaviors that do not require a
        particular neighbor in order to be correctly applied. 
        SRv6 SIDs associated with a neighbor are advertised using the sub-TLVs defined
        in [Section 8](#ADJSID).

Supported behavior values, together with parent TLVs in which they are 
        advertised, are specified in [Section 10](#ENDBEH) of this document. Please note
	that not all behaviors defined in [RFC8986](#RFC8986) 
        are defined in this document, e.g., End.T is not.

This new sub-TLV is advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV defined in
        the previous section. SRv6 End SIDs inherit the topology/algorithm
        from the parent locator.

The SRv6 End SID sub-TLV has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Type       |     Length    |    Flags      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Endpoint Behavior       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (128 bits) . . .                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Sub-sub-TLV-len|         Sub-sub-TLVs (variable) . . .         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

**Type:**
  5. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).

**Length:**
  Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).
  	  The length value is variable.

**Flags:**
  1 octet. No flags are currently defined. All bits are reserved for future 
  	  use. They **MUST** be  set to zero on transmission and **MUST** be
  	  ignored on receipt.

**Endpoint Behavior:**
  2 octets, as defined in [RFC8986](#RFC8986).      
            Supported behavior values for this sub-TLV are defined in [Section 10](#ENDBEH) of this document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior values are
  	  ignored by the receiver.

**SID:**
  16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

**Sub-sub-TLV-length:**
  1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-sub-TLVs.

**Optional Sub-sub-TLVs:**
  Supported sub-sub-TLVs are specified in 
  	  [Section 11.6](#SUBTLVREGISTRY). Any sub-sub-TLV that is not allowed in the
  	  SRv6 End SID sub-TLV **MUST** be ignored.


The SRv6 End SID **MUST** be allocated from its associated locator. 
        SRv6 End SIDs that are not allocated from the associated 
        locator **MUST** be ignored.

Multiple SRv6 End SIDs **MAY** be associated with the same locator. In
        cases where the number of SRv6 End SID sub-TLVs exceeds the capacity
        of a single TLV, multiple Locator TLVs for the same locator **MAY** be
        advertised. For a given MTID/Locator, the algorithm **MUST** be the same in
        all TLVs. If this restriction is not met, all TLVs for that
        MTID/Locator **MUST** be ignored.

<a name="ADJSID"></a>
# Advertising SRv6 Adjacency SIDs

Certain SRv6 Endpoint behaviors [RFC8986](#RFC8986) are
      associated with a particular adjacency.

This document defines two new sub-TLVs of TLVs 22, 23, 25, 141, 222, and 223
       -- namely "SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLVs" and "SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs".

IS-IS neighbor advertisements are topology specific but not
      algorithm specific. SIDs advertised in SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs 
      therefore inherit the topology from the associated neighbor advertisement, but 
      the algorithm is specified in the individual SID.

All SIDs advertised in SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs **MUST** 
      be a subnet of a Locator with  matching topology and algorithm that are advertised 
      by the same node in an SRv6 Locator TLV. SIDs that do not meet this 
      requirement **MUST** be ignored. This ensures that the node advertising
      these SIDs is also advertising its corresponding Locator with the algorithm 
      that will be used for computing paths destined to the SID.

<a name="ENDXTLV"></a>
## SRv6 End.X SID Sub-TLV

This sub-TLV is used to advertise an SRv6 SID associated with a
        point-to-point adjacency. Multiple SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLVs **MAY** be
        associated with the same adjacency.

The SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |   Flags       |   Algorithm   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Weight      |        Endpoint Behavior      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (128 bits) . . .                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Sub-sub-tlv-len|         Sub-sub-TLVs (variable) . . .         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

**Type: 43.**
  Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).

**Length:**
  Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).
  	  The length value is variable.

**Flags:**
  1 octet.

  **where:**
    **B-Flag:**
      Backup flag.  If set, the SID is eligible
                    for protection, e.g., using IP Fast Reroute (IPFRR) [RFC5286](#RFC5286), as described in [RFC8355](#RFC8355).

    **S-Flag:**
      Set flag.  When set, the S-flag indicates that the
                    SID refers to a set of adjacencies (and therefore 
                    **MAY** be assigned to other adjacencies as well).

    **P-Flag:**
      Persistent flag.  When set, the P-flag indicates that
                    the SID is persistently allocated, i.e., the 
                    SID value remains consistent across router restart 
                    and/or interface flap.

    **Reserved bits:**
      Reserved bits **MUST** be zero when originated and
      	      **MUST** be ignored when received.



**Algorithm:**
  1 octet, as defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry [RFC8665](#RFC8665).

**Weight:**
  1 octet.  The value represents the weight of the
  	  SID for the purpose of load balancing.  The use 
  	  of the weight is defined in [RFC8402].

**Endpoint Behavior:**
  2 octets, as defined in  [RFC8986](#RFC8986).
  	  Supported behavior values for this sub-TLV are defined in [Section 10](#ENDBEH) 
            of this document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior values are ignored 
            by the receiver.

**SID:**
  16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

**Sub-sub-TLV-length:**
  1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-sub- TLVs.

**Optional Sub-sub-TLVs:**
  Supported sub-sub-TLVs are specified in 
  	  [Section 11.6](#SUBTLVREGISTRY). Any sub-sub-TLV that is not allowed in
  	  SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV **MUST** be ignored.


Note that multiple TLVs for the same neighbor may be
    required in order to advertise all the SRv6 SIDs associated
     with that neighbor.

<a name="LANENDXTLV"></a>
## SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLV

This sub-TLV is used to advertise an SRv6 SID associated with a LAN
        adjacency. Since the parent TLV is advertising an adjacency to the
        Designated Intermediate System (DIS) for the LAN, it is necessary to
        include the System-ID of the physical neighbor on the LAN with which
        the SRv6 SID is associated. Given that many neighbors may
        exist on a given LAN, multiple SRv6 LAN END.X SID sub-TLVs may
        be associated with the same LAN. Note that multiple TLVs for the same
        DIS neighbor may be required in order to advertise all the SRv6
        SIDs associated with that neighbor.

The SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
|             Neighbor System-ID (ID length octets)             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Flags       |   Algorithm   |   Weight      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Endpoint Behavior       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (128 bits) . . .                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Sub-sub-TLV-len|      Sub-sub-TLVs (variable) . . .            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

**Type:**
  44. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).

**Length:**
  Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).
  	  The length value is variable.

**Neighbor System-ID:**
  IS-IS System-ID of length "ID Length", as defined in [ISO10589](#ISO10589).

**Flags:**
  1 octet.

  The B-, S-, and P-flags are as described in [Section 8.1](#ENDXTLV). Reserved bits **MUST** be zero when originated and
  	    **MUST** be ignored when received.

**Algorithm:**
  1 octet, as defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry [RFC8665](#RFC8665).

**Weight:**
  1 octet.  The value represents the weight of the
  	  SID for the purpose of load balancing.  The use 
  	  of the weight is defined in [RFC8402].

**Endpoint Behavior:**
  2 octets, as defined in [RFC8986](#RFC8986).
  	  Supported behavior values for this sub-TLV are defined in [Section 10](#ENDBEH) of this document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior values are
  	  ignored by the receiver.

**SID:**
  16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

**Sub-sub-TLV-length:**
  1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-sub- TLVs.

**Optional Sub-sub-TLVs:**
  Supported sub-sub-TLVs are specified in 
  	  [Section 11.6](#SUBTLVREGISTRY). Any sub-sub-TLV that is not allowed in
  	  SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV **MUST** be ignored.


Note that multiple TLVs for the same neighbor, on the same LAN, may be
    required in order to advertise all the SRv6 SIDs associated
     with that neighbor.

<a name="STRUCTTLV"></a>
# SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV is an optional sub-sub-TLV of:

- SRv6 End SID sub-TLV ([Section 7.2](#ENDTLV))
- SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV ([Section 8.1](#ENDXTLV))
- SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV ([Section 8.2](#LANENDXTLV))

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV is used to advertise the structure of the SRv6 SID,
      as defined in [RFC8986](#RFC8986). It has the following format:

```

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    LB Length  |  LN Length    | Fun. Length   |  Arg. Length  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

```

**where:**
  **Type:**
    1. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).

  **Length:**
    Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of [ISO10589](#ISO10589).
    	The length value is 4 octets.

  **LB Length:**
    1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Block length in bits.

  **LN Length:**
    1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Node length in bits.

  **Fun. Length:**
    1 octet. SRv6 SID Function length in bits.

  **Arg. Length:**
    1 octet. SRv6 SID Arguments length in bits.



The IS-IS SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV **MUST NOT** appear more than once in its parent
      sub-TLV. If it appears more than once in its parent sub-TLV, the parent sub-TLV **MUST** be
      ignored by the receiver.

The sum of all four sizes advertised in the IS-IS SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV **MUST**
      be less than or equal to 128 bits. If the sum of all four sizes advertised in the IS-IS SRv6 
      SID Structure sub-sub-TLV is larger than 128 bits, the parent sub-TLV **MUST** be ignored
      by the receiver.

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV is intended for informational use by the control and
      management planes. It **MUST NOT** be used at a transit node (as defined in 
      [RFC8754](#RFC8754)) for forwarding packets. As an example, this information
      could be used for the following:

- validation of SRv6 SIDs being instantiated in the network and
	advertised via IS-IS. These can be learned by controllers via Border Gateway Protocol - Link
	State (BGP-LS) and then be 
	monitored for conformance to the SRv6 SID allocation scheme chosen by the operator,
	as described in [RFC8986](#RFC8986).
- verification and automation for securing the SRv6 domain by
	  provisioning filtering rules at SR domain boundaries, as described
	  in [RFC8754](#RFC8754).

The details of these potential applications are outside the scope of
    this document.

<a name="ENDBEH"></a>
# Advertising Endpoint Behaviors

Endpoint behaviors are defined in 
      [RFC8986](#RFC8986). The codepoints for the 
      Endpoint behaviors are defined in the "SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors" registry defined in
      [RFC8986](#RFC8986). If a behavior is advertised, it
      **MUST** only be advertised in the 
      TLV(s) marked with "Y" in the table below and **MUST NOT** be advertised in the 
      TLV(s) marked with "N" in the table below.

**Table: Endpoint Behaviors**

| Endpoint Behavior | Endpoint Behavior Codepoint | End SID | End.X SID | Lan End.X SID |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| End   (PSP, USP, USD) | 1-4, 28-31 | Y | N | N |
| End.X (PSP, USP, USD) | 5-8, 32-35 | N | Y | Y |
| End.DX6 | 16 | N | Y | Y |
| End.DX4 | 17 | N | Y | Y |
| End.DT6 | 18 | Y | N | N |
| End.DT4 | 19 | Y | N | N |
| End.DT46 | 20 | Y | N | N |

<a name="IANA"></a>
# IANA Considerations

This document requests allocation for the following TLVs, sub-TLVs,
      and sub-sub-TLVs by updating the existing registries and defining
      new registries under the "IS-IS TLV Codepoints" grouping.

## SRv6 Locator TLV

The SRv6 Locator TLV shares sub-TLV space with TLVs advertising prefix
        reachability. IANA has updated the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising
        Prefix Reachability" registry initially defined in [RFC7370](#RFC7370) by adding this document as a reference and updating the description of that registry to include the SRv6 Locator TLV (27).

This document makes the following registration in the "IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints"
        registry:

**Table: IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints Registry**

| Value | Name | IIH | LSP | SNP | Purge |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 27 | SRv6 Locator | n | y | n | n |

### SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV

This document makes the following registration:

**Table: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry**

| Type | Description | 27 | 135 | 235 | 236 | 237 | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 5 | SRv6 End SID | y | n | n | n | n | RFC 9352, [Section 7.2](#ENDTLV) |

<a name="REVISEDREG"></a>
### IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

IANA has updated the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability" registry to include a column for the SRv6 Locator TLV (27) as shown below:

**Table: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry**

| Type | Description | 27 | 135 | 235 | 236 | 237 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 32-bit Administrative Tag Sub-TLV | y | y | y | y | y |
| 2 | 64-bit Administrative Tag Sub-TLV | y | y | y | y | y |
| 3 | Prefix Segment Identifier | n | y | y | y | y |
| 4 | Prefix Attribute Flags | y | y | y | y | y |
| 6 | Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM) | n | y | y | y | y |
| 11 | IPv4 Source Router ID | y | y | y | y | y |
| 12 | IPv6 Source Router ID | y | y | y | y | y |
| 32 | BIER Info | n | y | y | y | y |

## SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

This document makes the following registration in the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS
        Router CAPABILITY TLV" registry:

**Table: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV Registry**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 25 | SRv6 Capabilities | RFC 9352, [Section 2](#SRV6CAP) |

## IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for the SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV" registry under the
        "IS-IS TLV Codepoints" grouping for the assignment of sub-TLV
        types for the SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV specified in this document ([Section 2](#SRV6CAP)). This registry defines sub-sub-TLVs for the SRv6	
	  Capabilities sub-TLV (25) advertised in the IS-IS Router	
	  CAPABILITY TLV (242).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in [RFC8126](#RFC8126). Guidance for the designated
	experts is provided in [RFC7370](#RFC7370).
	No sub-sub-TLVs are defined by this document, except for	
	the reserved type 0.

**Table: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Registry**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | Reserved | RFC 9532 |
| 1-255 | Unassigned |  |

## SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLVs

This document makes the following registrations in the
        "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information" registry:

**Table: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information Registry**

| Type | Description | 22 | 23 | 25 | 141 | 222 | 223 | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 43 | SRv6 End.X SID | y | y | y | y | y | y | RFC 9352, [Section 8.1](#ENDXTLV) |
| 44 | SRv6 LAN End.X SID | y | y | y | y | y | y | RFC 9352, [Section 8.2](#LANENDXTLV) |

## MSD Types

This document makes the following registrations in the "IGP MSD-Types" 
        registry:

**Table: IGP MSD-Types**

| Value | Name | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 41 | SRH Max SL | RFC 9352 |
| 42 | SRH Max End Pop | RFC 9352 |
| 44 | SRH Max H.encaps | RFC 9352 |
| 45 | SRH Max End D | RFC 9352 |

<a name="SUBTLVREGISTRY"></a>
## IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs" registry under the
	"IS-IS TLV Codepoints" grouping to assign sub-TLV
	types for the SID sub-TLVs specified in this document (Sections
	[7.2](#ENDTLV), [8.1](#ENDXTLV), and [8.2](#LANENDXTLV)).

This registry defines sub-sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID sub-TLVs. This includes the following sub-TLVs:

- SRv6 End SID (5) (Advertised in SRv6 Locator TLV (27))
- SRv6 End.X SID (43) (Advertised in TLVs advertising neighbor	
	    information)
- SRv6 LAN End.X SID (44) (Advertised in TLVs advertising	
	    neighbor information)

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in [RFC8126](#RFC8126). Guidance for the designated experts is provided in [RFC7370](#RFC7370). The following
	assignments are made by this document:

**Table: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs Registry**

| Type | Description | 5 | 43 | 44 | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | Reserved |  |  |  | RFC 9352 |
| 1 | SRv6 SID Structure | y | y | y | RFC 9352 |
| 2-255 | Unassigned |  |  |  |  |

<a name="ANYCASTBIT"></a>
## Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV

This document adds a new bit in the "IS-IS Bit Values for Prefix Attribute Flags
	Sub-TLV" registry:

**Table: IS-IS Bit Values for Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV Registry**

| Bit # | Name | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4 | Anycast Flag (A-flag) | RFC 9352, [Section 6](#ANYCASTFLAG) |

<a name="FLAGREGCAP"></a>
## IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV 
	Codepoints" grouping to assign bits 0 to 15 in the Flags field of the 
	IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV specified in this document ([Section 2](#SRV6CAP)). This registry defines bit values advertised in the	
	  Flags field of the SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV (25).  This sub-TLV	
	  is advertised in the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV (242).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in	
	[RFC8126](#RFC8126).  Guidance for the designated
	experts is provided in [RFC7370](#RFC7370).
	The following assignments are made by this document:

**Table: IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags Registry**

| Type | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | Unassigned |  |
| 1 | O-flag | RFC 9352, [Section 2](#SRV6CAP) |
| 2-15 | Unassigned |  |

<a name="FLAGREGLOC"></a>
## IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV 
	Codepoints" grouping to assign bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the 
	SRv6 Locator TLV specified in this document ([Section 7.1](#LOCTLV)). This registry defines bit values advertised in the	
	  Flags field of the SRv6 Locator TLV (27).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in	
	[RFC8126](#RFC8126). Guidance for the designated
	experts is provided in [RFC7370](#RFC7370).  The following
	assignments are made by this document:

**Table: IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags Registry**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | D-flag | RFC 9352, [Section 7.1](#LOCTLV) |
| 1-7 | Unassigned |  |

<a name="FLAGREGEND"></a>
## IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV
	Codepoints" grouping to assign bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the 
	IS-IS SRv6 End SID sub-TLV specified in this document ([Section 7.2](#ENDTLV)). This registry defines bit values advertised in the	
	  Flags field of the SRv6 End SID sub-TLV (5), which is advertised in	
	  the SRv6 Locator TLV (27).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in	
	[RFC8126](#RFC8126).  Guidance for the designated
	experts is provided in [RFC7370](#RFC7370).
	No assignments are made by this document.

**Table: IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags Registry**

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| 0-7 | Unassigned |

<a name="FLAGENDX"></a>
## IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV 
	Codepoints" grouping to assign bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the 
	IS-IS SRv6 End.X SID and LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs (Sections [8.1](#ENDXTLV) and [8.2](#LANENDXTLV)).

This registry defines bit values advertised in the	
	  Flags field of SRv6 SID sub-TLVs associated with adjacencies.	
	  These sub-TLVs are advertised in TLVs advertising neighbor	
	  information.  The list of sub-TLVs includes:

- SRv6 End.X SID (43)
- SRv6 LAN End.X SID (44)

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in [RFC8126](#RFC8126). Guidance for the designated experts is provided in [RFC7370](#RFC7370). The
	following assignments are made by this document:

**Table: IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags Registry**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | B-flag | RFC 9352, [Section 8.1](#ENDXTLV) |
| 1 | S-flag | RFC 9352, [Section 8.1](#ENDXTLV) |
| 2 | P-flag | RFC 9352, [Section 8.1](#ENDXTLV) |
| 3-7 | Unassigned |  |

<a name="Security"></a>
# Security Considerations

Security concerns for IS-IS are addressed in [ISO10589](#ISO10589), 
      [RFC5304](#RFC5304), and [RFC5310](#RFC5310). While IS-IS is deployed 
      under a single administrative domain, there can be deployments where potential 
      attackers have access to one or more networks in the IS-IS routing domain.  
      In these deployments, the stronger authentication mechanisms defined in the
      aforementioned documents **SHOULD** be used.

This document describes the IS-IS extensions required to support SR over an IPv6 data plane.  The security considerations for SR are discussed in [RFC8402](#RFC8402).  [RFC8986](#RFC8986)
      defines the SRv6 Network Programming concept and specifies the main 
      SR behaviors to enable the creation of interoperable overlays; 
      the security considerations from that document apply too.

The advertisement for an incorrect MSD value may have negative
      consequences; see [RFC8491](#RFC8491) for additional considerations.

Security concerns associated with the setting of the O-flag are described in  
      [RFC9259](#RFC9259).

Security concerns associated with the usage of Flexible Algorithms are described in
      [RFC9350](#RFC9350)).

<a name="references"></a>
# References

## Normative References

<a name="ISO10589"></a> **[ISO10589]** "Information technology - Telecommunications and information exchange between systems - Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-domain routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)", ISO/IEC 10589:2002, November 2002. Second Edition

<a name="RFC2119"></a> **[RFC2119]** S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>

<a name="RFC5120"></a> **[RFC5120]** T. Przygienda, N. Shen, N. Sheth, "M-ISIS: Multi Topology (MT) Routing in Intermediate System to Intermediate Systems (IS-ISs)", RFC 5120, DOI 10.17487/RFC5120, February 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5120>

<a name="RFC5305"></a> **[RFC5305]** T. Li, H. Smit, "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering", RFC 5305, DOI 10.17487/RFC5305, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

<a name="RFC5308"></a> **[RFC5308]** C. Hopps, "Routing IPv6 with IS-IS", RFC 5308, DOI 10.17487/RFC5308, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5308>

<a name="RFC7370"></a> **[RFC7370]** L. Ginsberg, "Updates to the IS-IS TLV Codepoints Registry", RFC 7370, DOI 10.17487/RFC7370, September 2014. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7370>

<a name="RFC7794"></a> **[RFC7794]** L. Ginsberg, B. Decraene, S. Previdi, X. Xu, U. Chunduri, "IS-IS Prefix Attributes for Extended IPv4 and IPv6 Reachability", RFC 7794, DOI 10.17487/RFC7794, March 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7794>

<a name="RFC7981"></a> **[RFC7981]** L. Ginsberg, S. Previdi, M. Chen, "IS-IS Extensions for Advertising Router Information", RFC 7981, DOI 10.17487/RFC7981, October 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7981>

<a name="RFC8126"></a> **[RFC8126]** M. Cotton, B. Leiba, T. Narten, "Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

<a name="RFC8174"></a> **[RFC8174]** B. Leiba, "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174, May 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>

<a name="RFC8402"></a> **[RFC8402]** C. Filsfils, S. Previdi, L. Ginsberg, B. Decraene, S. Litkowski, R. Shakir, "Segment Routing Architecture", RFC 8402, DOI 10.17487/RFC8402, July 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

<a name="RFC8491"></a> **[RFC8491]** J. Tantsura, U. Chunduri, S. Aldrin, L. Ginsberg, "Signaling Maximum SID Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS", RFC 8491, DOI 10.17487/RFC8491, November 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8491>

<a name="RFC8665"></a> **[RFC8665]** P. Psenak, S. Previdi, C. Filsfils, H. Gredler, R. Shakir, W. Henderickx, J. Tantsura, "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing", RFC 8665, DOI 10.17487/RFC8665, December 2019. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

<a name="RFC8667"></a> **[RFC8667]** S. Previdi, L. Ginsberg, C. Filsfils, A. Bashandy, H. Gredler, B. Decraene, "IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing", RFC 8667, DOI 10.17487/RFC8667, December 2019. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8667>

<a name="RFC8754"></a> **[RFC8754]** C. Filsfils, D. Dukes, S. Previdi, J. Leddy, S. Matsushima, D. Voyer, "IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)", RFC 8754, DOI 10.17487/RFC8754, March 2020. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

<a name="RFC8986"></a> **[RFC8986]** C. Filsfils, P. Camarillo, J. Leddy, D. Voyer, S. Matsushima, Z. Li, "Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming", RFC 8986, DOI 10.17487/RFC8986, February 2021. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

<a name="RFC9259"></a> **[RFC9259]** Z. Ali, C. Filsfils, S. Matsushima, D. Voyer, M. Chen, "Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) in Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)", RFC 9259, DOI 10.17487/RFC9259, June 2022. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9259>

<a name="RFC9350"></a> **[RFC9350]** P Psenak, S Hegde, C Filsfils, K Talaulikar, A Gulko, "IGP Flexible Algorithm", RFC 9350, DOI 10.17487/RFC9350, February 2023. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9350>

## Informative References

<a name="RFC5286"></a> **[RFC5286]** A. Atlas, A. Zinin, "Basic Specification for IP Fast Reroute: Loop-Free Alternates", RFC 5286, DOI 10.17487/RFC5286, September 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5286>

<a name="RFC5304"></a> **[RFC5304]** T. Li, R. Atkinson, "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication", RFC 5304, DOI 10.17487/RFC5304, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

<a name="RFC5310"></a> **[RFC5310]** M. Bhatia, V. Manral, T. Li, R. Atkinson, R. White, M. Fanto, "IS-IS Generic Cryptographic Authentication", RFC 5310, DOI 10.17487/RFC5310, February 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>

<a name="RFC8355"></a> **[RFC8355]** C. Filsfils, S. Previdi, B. Decraene, R. Shakir, "Resiliency Use Cases in Source Packet Routing in Networking (SPRING) Networks", RFC 8355, DOI 10.17487/RFC8355, March 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8355>

# Acknowledgements

Thanks to Christian Hopps for his review comments and shepherd
      work.

Thanks to Alvaro Retana and John Scudder for
      AD review and comments.

<a name="CONTRIB"></a>
# Contributors

The following people gave a substantial contribution to the content
      of this document and should be considered coauthors:

**Stefano Previdi**

- Organization: Huawei Technologies
- Email: stefano@previdi.net

**Paul Wells**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Address: Saint Paul, Minnesota, United States of America
- Email: pauwells@cisco.com

**Daniel Voyer**

- Email: daniel.voyer@bell.ca

**Satoru Matsushima**

- Email: satoru.matsushima@g.softbank.co.jp

**Bart Peirens**

- Email: bart.peirens@proximus.com

**Hani Elmalky**

- Email: hani.elmalky@ericsson.com

**Prem Jonnalagadda**

- Email: prem@barefootnetworks.com

**Milad Sharif**

- Email: msharif@barefootnetworks.com

**Robert Hanzl**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Address: Millenium Plaza Building, V Celnici 10, Prague 1, Prague, Czech Republic
- Email: rhanzl@cisco.com

**Ketan Talaulikar**

- Organization: Cisco Systems, Inc.
- Email: ketant@cisco.com

<a name="authors-addresses"></a>
# Authors' Addresses

**Peter Psenak**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Address: Pribinova Street 10, Bratislava, 81109, Slovakia
- Email: ppsenak@cisco.com

**Clarence Filsfils**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Address: Brussels, Belgium
- Email: cfilsfil@cisco.com

**Ahmed Bashandy**

- Organization: Cisco Systems
- Address: Milpitas, United States of America
- Email: bashandy@cisco.com

**Bruno Decraene**

- Organization: Orange
- Address: Chatillon, France
- Email: bruno.decraene@orange.com

**Zhibo Hu**

- Organization: Huawei Technologies
- Email: huzhibo@huawei.com
