# IGP Extension for Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Security Capability Support in PCE Discovery (PCED)
*(IGP Extension: PCEP Security in PCED)*

**RFC 9353**
*Stream: IETF*

**Category:** std
**Updates:** 5088,5089,8231,8306
**Submission Type:** IETF
**Consensus:** true
**IPR:** trust200902
**Doc Name:** draft-ietf-lsr-pce-discovery-security-support-13

## Authors

- Diego R. Lopez
  - Telefonica I+D
  - Email: diego.r.lopez@telefonica.com
- Qin Wu
  - Huawei Technologies
  - Email: bill.wu@huawei.com
- Dhruv Dhody
  - Huawei Technologies
  - Email: dhruv.ietf@gmail.com
- Qiufang Ma
  - Huawei Technologies
  - Email: maqiufang1@huawei.com
- Daniel King
  - Old Dog Consulting
  - Email: daniel@olddog.co.uk

**Date:** 01 2023

**Area:** rtg

**Workgroup:** lsr

**Keywords:** Path Computation Element

## Related Documents

- [prev](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-lsr-pce-discovery-security-support-13)
- [alternate](https://dx.doi.org/10.17487/rfc9353)
- [alternate](urn:issn:2070-1721)

## Abstract

When a Path Computation Element (PCE) is a Label Switching Router
(LSR) or a server participating in the Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP), its
presence and path computation capabilities can be advertised using IGP
flooding.  The IGP extensions
      for PCE Discovery (PCED) (RFCs 5088 and 5089) define a method to
      advertise path computation capabilities using IGP flooding for OSPF and
      IS-IS, respectively. However, these specifications lack a method to
      advertise Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)
      security (e.g., Transport Layer Security (TLS) and TCP Authentication
      Option (TCP-AO)) support capability.

This document defines capability flag bits for the PCE-CAP-FLAGS
      sub-TLV that can be announced as an attribute in the IGP advertisement
      to distribute PCEP security support information. In addition, this
      document updates RFCs 5088 and 5089 to allow advertisement of a Key
      ID or KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV to support TCP-AO security capability.
      This document also updates RFCs 8231 and 8306.

## Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
            (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
            received public review and has been approved for publication by
            the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further
            information on Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of 
            RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any
            errata, and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
            [https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9353](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9353).

## Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
            document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
            Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
            ([https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info](https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info)) in effect on the date of
            publication of this document. Please review these documents
            carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
            respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
            document must include Revised BSD License text as described in
            Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
            warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

## Table of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#intro)
- [2. Conventions Used in This Document](#section-2)
- [3. IGP Extension for PCEP Security Capability Support](#section-3)
  - [3.1. Use of PCEP Security Capability Support for PCED](#section-3.1)
  - [3.2. KEY-ID Sub-TLV](#keyid)
    - [3.2.1. IS-IS](#keyid-isis)
    - [3.2.2. OSPF](#keyid-ospf)
  - [3.3. KEY-CHAIN-NAME Sub-TLV](#keyname)
    - [3.3.1. IS-IS](#keyname-ISIS)
    - [3.3.2. OSPF](#keyname-ospf)
- [4. Updates to RFCs](#section-4)
- [5. Backward Compatibility Considerations](#section-5)
- [6. Management Considerations](#section-6)
  - [6.1. Control of Policy and Functions](#section-6.1)
  - [6.2. Information and Data Model](#section-6.2)
  - [6.3. Liveness Detection and Monitoring](#section-6.3)
  - [6.4. Verification of Correct Operations](#section-6.4)
  - [6.5. Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components](#section-6.5)
  - [6.6. Impact on Network Operations](#section-6.6)
- [7. Security Considerations](#section-7)
- [8. IANA Considerations](#section-8)
  - [8.1. PCE Capability Flags](#cap)
  - [8.2. PCED Sub-TLV Type Indicators](#section-8.2)
- [9. References](#section-9)
  - [9.1. Normative References](#section-9.1)
  - [9.2. Informative References](#section-9.2)
- [Acknowledgments](#section-appendix.a)
- [Authors' Addresses](#authors-addresses)

<a name="intro"></a>
# Introduction

As described in [RFC5440](#RFC5440), privacy and integrity are important issues for communication using the Path Computation Element Communication
      Protocol (PCEP); an attacker that intercepts a PCEP message
      could obtain sensitive information
      related to computed paths and resources. Authentication and integrity checks
      allow the receiver of a PCEP
   message to know that the message genuinely comes from the node that
   purports to have sent it and whether the message has been
   modified.

Among the possible solutions mentioned in [RFC5440](#RFC5440), Transport Layer Security (TLS) [RFC8446](#RFC8446) provides support for peer
      authentication, message encryption, and integrity while TCP-AO) [RFC5925](#RFC5925)
      and Cryptographic Algorithms for TCP-AO [RFC5926](#RFC5926) offer significantly improved security for
      applications using TCP. As specified in [RFC8253](#RFC8253), the PCC needs to know whether the PCE
      server supports TLS or TCP-AO as a secure transport in order for a Path
      Computation Client (PCC) to establish a connection with a PCE server
      using TLS or TCP-AO.

[RFC5088](#RFC5088) and [RFC5089](#RFC5089) define a method
      to advertise path computation capabilities using IGP flooding for OSPF
      and IS-IS, respectively. However, these specifications lack a method to
      advertise PCEP security (e.g., TLS and TCP-AO) support capability.

This document defines capability flag bits for the PCE-CAP-FLAGS
      sub-TLV that can be announced as attributes in the IGP advertisement to
      distribute PCEP security support information. In addition, this document
      updates [RFC5088](#RFC5088) and [RFC5089](#RFC5089) to allow advertisement of a KeyID or
      KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV to support TCP-AO security capability.

IANA created a top-level registry titled "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability
      Flags" per [RFC5088](#RFC5088). This document updates [RFC5088](#RFC5088) and moves it to follow the heading of the "Interior
      Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry.
      [RFC5089](#RFC5089) states that the IS-IS PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV uses the 
same registry as OSPF. This document updates [RFC5089](#RFC5089) to
      refer to the new IGP registry.  Further, this document updates [RFC8231](#RFC8231) where it references the registry
      location as the "Open Shortest Path First v2 (OSPFv2) Parameters" registry to the
      "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry.

      This document also
      updates [RFC8306](#RFC8306) by changing the term "OSPF PCE
Capability Flag" to read as "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability
Flags" and to note the corresponding registry now exists in the
"Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry.

# Conventions Used in This Document

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**NOT RECOMMENDED**",
    "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as
    described in BCP 14 [RFC2119](#RFC2119) [RFC8174](#RFC8174) 
    when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

# IGP Extension for PCEP Security Capability Support

[RFC5088](#RFC5088) defines a PCE Discovery (PCED) TLV carried
      in an OSPF Router Information Link State Advertisement (LSA) as defined
      in [RFC7770](#RFC7770) to facilitate PCED using OSPF. This
      document defines two capability flag bits in the OSPF PCE Capability
      Flags to indicate TCP-AO support [RFC5925](#RFC5925) [RFC5926](#RFC5926) and PCEP over TLS support
      [RFC8253](#RFC8253), respectively.

Similarly, [RFC5089](#RFC5089) defines the PCED sub-TLV for use
      in PCED using IS-IS. 
This document will use the same flag for the OSPF PCE Capability Flags sub-TLV
to allow IS-IS to indicate TCP-AO support and PCEP
over TLS support, respectively.

The IANA assignments for shared OSPF and IS-IS Security Capability
      Flags are documented in [Section 8.1](#cap) of this
      document.

## Use of PCEP Security Capability Support for PCED

TCP-AO and PCEP over TLS support flag bits are advertised using IGP
        flooding.

- PCE supports TCP-AO: IGP advertisement **SHOULD** include a TCP-AO
            support flag bit.
- PCE supports TLS: IGP advertisement **SHOULD** include PCEP over
            TLS support flag bit.

If the PCE supports multiple security mechanisms, it **SHOULD**
        include all corresponding flag bits in its IGP advertisement.

A client's configuration **MAY** indicate that support for a given
        security capability is required. If a client is configured to require
        that its PCE server supports TCP-AO, the client **MUST** verify that the
        TCP-AO flag bit in the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV for a given server is set
        before it opens a connection to that server. Similarly, if the client
        is configured to require that its PCE server supports TLS, the client
        **MUST** verify that the PCEP over TLS support flag bit in the
        PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV for a given server is set before it opens a
        connection to that server.

<a name="keyid"></a>
## KEY-ID Sub-TLV

The KEY-ID sub-TLV specifies an identifier that can be used by the
        PCC to identify the TCP-AO key (referred to as "KeyID" in [RFC5925](#RFC5925)).

<a name="keyid-isis"></a>
### IS-IS

The KEY-ID sub-TLV **MAY** be present in the PCED sub-TLV carried
          within the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV when the capability flag bit
          of the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in IS-IS is set to indicate TCP-AO support.

The KEY-ID sub-TLV has the following format:

**Type:**
  6

**Length:**
  1

**KeyID:**
  The one-octet KeyID as per [RFC5925](#RFC5925) to uniquely identify the
              Master Key Tuple (MKT).


<a name="keyid-ospf"></a>
### OSPF

Similarly, this sub-TLV **MAY** be present in the PCED TLV carried
          within the OSPF Router Information LSA when the capability flag bit of
          the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in OSPF is set to indicate TCP-AO support.

The format of the KEY-ID sub-TLV is as follows:

```

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type = 6         |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    KeyID      |                 Reserved                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
```

**Type:**
  6

**Length:**
  4

**KeyID:**
  The one octet KeyID as per [RFC5925](#RFC5925)
                to uniquely identify the MKT.

**Reserved:**
  **MUST** be set to zero while sending and ignored on
                receipt.


<a name="keyname"></a>
## KEY-CHAIN-NAME Sub-TLV

The KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV specifies a key chain name that can be
        used by the PCC to identify the key chain. 
The key chain name could be manually configured
        via command-line interface (CLI) or installed in the YANG datastore (see [RFC8177](#RFC8177)) at the PCC.

<a name="keyname-ISIS"></a>
### IS-IS

The KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV **MAY** be present in the PCED sub-TLV
          carried within the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV when the capability
          flag bit of the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in IS-IS is set to indicate
          TCP-AO support.

The KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV has the following format:

**Type:**
  7

**Length:**
  Variable, encodes the length of the value field.

**Key Chain Name:**
  The Key Chain Name contains a string of 1 to
              255 octets to be used to identify the key chain. It
              **MUST** be encoded using UTF-8. A receiving entity
              **MUST NOT** interpret invalid UTF-8 sequences and
              ignore them.  This field is not NULL terminated. UTF-8 "Shortest
              Form" encoding is **REQUIRED** to guard against the
              technical issues outlined in [UTR36](#UTR36).


<a name="keyname-ospf"></a>
### OSPF

Similarly, this sub-TLV **MAY** be present in the PCED TLV carried
          within the OSPF Router Information LSA when the capability flag bit
          of the PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV in OSPF is set to indicate TCP-AO support.
          The sub-TLV **MUST** be zero-padded so that the sub-TLV is 4-octet
          aligned.

The format of KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV is as follows:

```

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type = 7         |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
//                     Key Chain Name                          //
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
```

**Type:**
  7

**Length:**
  Variable, padding is not included in the Length
                field.

**Key Chain Name:**
  The Key Chain Name contains a string of 1 to 255 octets
                to be used to
                identify the key chain. It **MUST** be encoded using UTF-8. A
                receiving entity **MUST NOT** interpret invalid UTF-8 sequences and ignore them.
                This field is not NULL terminated. UTF-8 "Shortest Form"
                encoding is **REQUIRED** to guard against the technical issues
                outlined in [UTR36](#UTR36). The sub-TLV **MUST** be zero-padded so that the
                sub-TLV is 4-octet aligned.


# Updates to RFCs

[RFC5088](#RFC5088) states that no new sub-TLVs
      will be added to the PCED TLV and no new PCE information will be
      carried in the Router Information LSA. This document updates [RFC5088](#RFC5088) by allowing the two sub-TLVs defined in this document
      to be carried in the PCED TLV advertised in the Router Information
      LSA.

[RFC5089](#RFC5089) states that no new sub-TLVs
      will be added to the PCED TLV and no new PCE information will be
      carried in the Router CAPABILITY TLV. This document updates [RFC5089](#RFC5089) by allowing the two sub-TLVs defined in this document
      to be carried in the PCED TLV advertised in the Router CAPABILITY
      TLV.

This introduction of additional sub-TLVs should be viewed as an
      exception to the policies in [RFC5088](#RFC5088) and [RFC5089](#RFC5089), which is justified by the requirement
      to discover the PCEP security support prior to establishing a PCEP
      session. The restrictions defined in [RFC5088](#RFC5088) and [RFC5089](#RFC5089) should still be
      considered to be in place. If new advertisements are required in the future,
      alternative mechanisms such as using [RFC6823](#RFC6823) or
      [LSR-OSPF-TRANSPORT-INSTANCE](#I-D.ietf-lsr-ospf-transport-instance) should be considered.

The registry for the PCE Capability Flags assigned in [RFC5557](#RFC5557), [RFC8231](#RFC8231), [RFC8306](#RFC8306), [RFC8623](#RFC8623), and [RFC9168](#RFC9168) has changed to the
      IGP Parameters "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability Flags"
      registry created in this document.

# Backward Compatibility Considerations

An LSR that does not support the IGP PCE capability bits specified in
      this document silently ignores those bits.

An LSR that does not support the KEY-ID and KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLVs
      specified in this document silently ignores those sub-TLVs.

IGP extensions defined in this document do not introduce any new
      interoperability issues.

# Management Considerations

Manageability considerations for PCED are addressed in [RFC4674](#RFC4674), [RFC5088](#RFC5088), and [RFC5089](#RFC5089).

## Control of Policy and Functions

A PCE implementation **SHOULD** allow the following
   parameters to be configured on the PCE:

- support for TCP-AO
- the KeyID used by TCP-AO
- Key Chain Name
- support for TLS

## Information and Data Model

The YANG module for PCEP [PCE-PCEP-YANG](#I-D.ietf-pce-pcep-yang) supports PCEP security parameters (key, key chain, and TLS).

## Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Normal operations of the IGP meet the requirements for liveness detection and monitoring.

## Verification of Correct Operations

The correlation of PCEP security information advertised against information
   received can be achieved by comparing the information in the PCED
   sub-TLV received by the PCC with that stored at the PCE using the
   PCEP YANG.

## Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components

There are no new requirements on other protocols.

## Impact on Network Operations

Frequent changes in PCEP security information advertised in the
        PCED sub-TLV may have a significant impact on IGP and might
        destabilize the operation of the network by causing the PCCs to
        reconnect sessions with PCEs.  [RFC4674](#RFC4674), [RFC5088](#RFC5088), and [RFC5089](#RFC5089) list techniques that are applicable to this
        document as well.

# Security Considerations

Security considerations as specified by [RFC5088](#RFC5088) and
      [RFC5089](#RFC5089) are applicable to this document.

As described in [RFC5440](#RFC5440), a PCEP speaker **MUST**
      support TCP MD5 [RFC2385](#RFC2385), so no capability advertisement is needed to
      indicate support. However, as noted in [RFC6952](#RFC6952), TCP MD5 has been
      obsoleted by TCP-AO [RFC5925](#RFC5925) because of security concerns. TCP-AO is not widely implemented; therefore, it is **RECOMMENDED**
      that PCEP be secured using TLS per [RFC8253](#RFC8253) (which updates [RFC5440](#RFC5440)).
      An implementation **SHOULD** offer at least one of the two
      security capabilities defined in this document.

The information related to PCEP security is sensitive and due care
      needs to be taken by the operator. This document defines new capability
      bits that are susceptible to a downgrade attack by setting them to zero.
      The content of the Key-ID or KEY-CHAIN-NAME sub-TLV can be altered to enable
      an on-path attack.  Thus, before advertising the PCEP security parameters by using the
mechanism described in this document, the IGP **MUST** be known to provide
authentication and integrity for the PCED TLV using the mechanisms
defined in [RFC5304](#RFC5304), [RFC5310](#RFC5310), or [RFC5709](#RFC5709).

Moreover, as stated in the security considerations of [RFC5088](#RFC5088) and
      [RFC5089](#RFC5089), there are no mechanisms defined in OSPF or IS-IS to protect
      the confidentiality of the PCED TLV. 

For this reason, the operator must
      ensure that no private data is carried in the TLV. For example, the operator must ensure that KeyIDs or
      key chain names do not reveal sensitive information about the
      network.

# IANA Considerations

<a name="cap"></a>
## PCE Capability Flags

IANA has moved the "Path Computation Element (PCE)
        Capability Flags" registry from the "Open Shortest Path First v2
        (OSPFv2) Parameters" grouping to the "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP)
        Parameters" grouping.

IANA has made the following additional assignments from
        the "Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability Flags" registry:

**Table: Path Computation Element (PCE) Capability Flags Registrations**

| Bit | Capability Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 17 | TCP-AO Support | RFC 9353 |
| 18 | PCEP over TLS support | RFC 9353 |

The grouping is located at:
        [https://www.iana.org/assignments/igp-parameters/](https://www.iana.org/assignments/igp-parameters/).

## PCED Sub-TLV Type Indicators

The PCED sub-TLVs are defined in [RFC5088](#RFC5088) and
        [RFC5089](#RFC5089), but a corresponding IANA registry was not created.
        IANA has created a new registry called "PCE Discovery (PCED)
        Sub-TLV Type Indicators" under the "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP)
        Parameters" registry.  The registration policy for this registry is
        "Standards Action" [RFC8126](#RFC8126). Values in this registry come from the range
        0-65535.

This registry is initially populated as follows:

**Table: Initial Contents of the PCED Sub-TLV Type Indicators Registry**

| Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | Reserved | RFC 9353, RFC 5088 |
| 1 | PCE-ADDRESS | RFC 9353, RFC 5088 |
| 2 | PATH-SCOPE | RFC 9353, RFC 5088 |
| 3 | PCE-DOMAIN | RFC 9353, RFC 5088 |
| 4 | NEIG-PCE-DOMAIN | RFC 9353, RFC 5088 |
| 5 | PCE-CAP-FLAGS | RFC 9353, RFC 5088 |
| 6 | KEY-ID | RFC 9353 |
| 7 | KEY-CHAIN-NAME | RFC 9353 |

This registry is used by both the OSPF PCED TLV and the IS-IS PCED
        sub-TLV.

This grouping is located at:
        [https://www.iana.org/assignments/igp-parameters/](https://www.iana.org/assignments/igp-parameters/).

<a name="references"></a>
# References

## Normative References

<a name="RFC2119"></a> **[RFC2119]** S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>

<a name="RFC5088"></a> **[RFC5088]** JL. Le Roux, JP. Vasseur, Y. Ikejiri, R. Zhang, "OSPF Protocol Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery", RFC 5088, DOI 10.17487/RFC5088, January 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5088>

<a name="RFC5089"></a> **[RFC5089]** JL. Le Roux, JP. Vasseur, Y. Ikejiri, R. Zhang, "IS-IS Protocol Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery", RFC 5089, DOI 10.17487/RFC5089, January 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5089>

<a name="RFC5304"></a> **[RFC5304]** T. Li, R. Atkinson, "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication", RFC 5304, DOI 10.17487/RFC5304, October 2008. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

<a name="RFC5310"></a> **[RFC5310]** M. Bhatia, V. Manral, T. Li, R. Atkinson, R. White, M. Fanto, "IS-IS Generic Cryptographic Authentication", RFC 5310, DOI 10.17487/RFC5310, February 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>

<a name="RFC5557"></a> **[RFC5557]** Y. Lee, JL. Le Roux, D. King, E. Oki, "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Requirements and Protocol Extensions in Support of Global Concurrent Optimization", RFC 5557, DOI 10.17487/RFC5557, July 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5557>

<a name="RFC5709"></a> **[RFC5709]** M. Bhatia, V. Manral, M. Fanto, R. White, M. Barnes, T. Li, R. Atkinson, "OSPFv2 HMAC-SHA Cryptographic Authentication", RFC 5709, DOI 10.17487/RFC5709, October 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5709>

<a name="RFC5925"></a> **[RFC5925]** J. Touch, A. Mankin, R. Bonica, "The TCP Authentication Option", RFC 5925, DOI 10.17487/RFC5925, June 2010. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

<a name="RFC7770"></a> **[RFC7770]** A. Lindem, N. Shen, JP. Vasseur, R. Aggarwal, S. Shaffer, "Extensions to OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities", RFC 7770, DOI 10.17487/RFC7770, February 2016. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

<a name="RFC8126"></a> **[RFC8126]** M. Cotton, B. Leiba, T. Narten, "Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

<a name="RFC8174"></a> **[RFC8174]** B. Leiba, "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174, May 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>

<a name="RFC8177"></a> **[RFC8177]** A. Lindem, Y. Qu, D. Yeung, I. Chen, J. Zhang, "YANG Data Model for Key Chains", RFC 8177, DOI 10.17487/RFC8177, June 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8177>

<a name="RFC8231"></a> **[RFC8231]** E. Crabbe, I. Minei, J. Medved, R. Varga, "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE", RFC 8231, DOI 10.17487/RFC8231, September 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

<a name="RFC8253"></a> **[RFC8253]** D. Lopez, O. Gonzalez de Dios, Q. Wu, D. Dhody, "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)", RFC 8253, DOI 10.17487/RFC8253, October 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

<a name="RFC8306"></a> **[RFC8306]** Q. Zhao, D. Dhody, R. Palleti, D. King, "Extensions to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for Point-to-Multipoint Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths", RFC 8306, DOI 10.17487/RFC8306, November 2017. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8306>

<a name="RFC8623"></a> **[RFC8623]** U. Palle, D. Dhody, Y. Tanaka, V. Beeram, "Stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) Protocol Extensions for Usage with Point-to-Multipoint TE Label Switched Paths (LSPs)", RFC 8623, DOI 10.17487/RFC8623, June 2019. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8623>

<a name="RFC9168"></a> **[RFC9168]** D. Dhody, A. Farrel, Z. Li, "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extension for Flow Specification", RFC 9168, DOI 10.17487/RFC9168, January 2022. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9168>

## Informative References

<a name="I-D.ietf-lsr-ospf-transport-instance"></a> **[LSR-OSPF-TRANSPORT-INSTANCE]** A. Lindem, Y. Qu, A. Roy, S. Mirtorabi, "OSPF-GT (Generalized Transport)", Internet-Draft draft-ietf-lsr-ospf-transport-instance-04, January 2023. Work in Progress <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lsr-ospf-transport-instance-04>

<a name="I-D.ietf-pce-pcep-yang"></a> **[PCE-PCEP-YANG]** D. Dhody, V. Beeram, J. Hardwick, J. Tantsura, "A YANG Data Model for Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)", Internet-Draft draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-20, October 2022. Work in Progress <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-20>

<a name="RFC2385"></a> **[RFC2385]** A. Heffernan, "Protection of BGP Sessions via the TCP MD5 Signature Option", RFC 2385, DOI 10.17487/RFC2385, August 1998. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2385>

<a name="RFC4674"></a> **[RFC4674]** J.L. Le Roux, "Requirements for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery", RFC 4674, DOI 10.17487/RFC4674, October 2006. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4674>

<a name="RFC5440"></a> **[RFC5440]** JP. Vasseur, JL. Le Roux, "Path Computation Element (PCE) Communication Protocol (PCEP)", RFC 5440, DOI 10.17487/RFC5440, March 2009. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

<a name="RFC5926"></a> **[RFC5926]** G. Lebovitz, E. Rescorla, "Cryptographic Algorithms for the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO)", RFC 5926, DOI 10.17487/RFC5926, June 2010. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5926>

<a name="RFC6823"></a> **[RFC6823]** L. Ginsberg, S. Previdi, M. Shand, "Advertising Generic Information in IS-IS", RFC 6823, DOI 10.17487/RFC6823, December 2012. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6823>

<a name="RFC6952"></a> **[RFC6952]** M. Jethanandani, K. Patel, L. Zheng, "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP) Design Guide", RFC 6952, DOI 10.17487/RFC6952, May 2013. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6952>

<a name="RFC8446"></a> **[RFC8446]** E. Rescorla, "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3", RFC 8446, DOI 10.17487/RFC8446, August 2018. <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

<a name="UTR36"></a> **[UTR36]** M. Davis, M. Suignard, "Unicode Security Considerations", August 2010. Unicode Technical Report #36 <https://www.unicode.org/unicode/reports/tr36/>

# Acknowledgments

The authors of this document would like to thank Acee Lindem, Julien Meuric, Les Ginsberg, Ketan Talaulikar,
      Tom Petch, Aijun Wang, and
      Adrian Farrel for the review and comments.

The authors would also like to give special thanks to Michale Wang for his major contributions to the initial
      draft version.

Thanks to John Scudder for providing an
      excellent AD review. Thanks to Carlos Pignataro,
      Yaron Sheffer, Ron Bonica,
      and Will (Shucheng) LIU for directorate reviews.

Thanks to Lars Eggert, Robert Wilton, Roman Danyliw,
      Éric Vyncke, Paul Wouters,
      Murray Kucherawy, and Warren       Kumari for IESG reviews.

<a name="authors-addresses"></a>
# Authors' Addresses

**Diego R. Lopez**

- Organization: Telefonica I+D
- Address: Spain
- Email: diego.r.lopez@telefonica.com

**Qin Wu**

- Organization: Huawei Technologies
- Address: 101 Software Avenue, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210012, China
- Email: bill.wu@huawei.com

**Dhruv Dhody**

- Organization: Huawei Technologies
- Address: Bangalore, Karnataka, 560037, India
- Email: dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

**Qiufang Ma**

- Organization: Huawei Technologies
- Address: 101 Software Avenue, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210012, China
- Email: maqiufang1@huawei.com

**Daniel King**

- Organization: Old Dog Consulting
- Address: United Kingdom
- Email: daniel@olddog.co.uk
